The God we see when we stop looking
(A physical Jesus mediating for us before a holy god or the invisible spiritual image of God in us

now?)

Why is His form reserved for only the pure in heart?

Matt 5:8 Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.KJV

How does a heart look for God?

Jer 29:10-13 For thus saith the Lord, That after seventy years be accomplished
at Babylon I will visit you, and perform my good word toward you, in causing
you to return to this place.11 For I know the thoughts that I think toward you,
saith the Lord, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end.
12 Then shall ye call upon me, and ye shall go and pray unto me, and I will
hearken unto you.13 And ye shall seek me, and find me, when
ye shall search for me with all your heart.KJV

Why has no man seen God.
In this verse Jacob wrestles with an Angel yet he says he has seen God. How
has this been misunderstood to make God more human as opposed to bring us
to be more spiritual?

Gen 32:30-31 30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have
seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.31 And as he passed
over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh. KJV

John 1:17-18 For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by
Jesus Christ.18 No man hath seen God at any time; the only
begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. KJV

1 John 4:11-17
Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.12 No man
hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in
us, and his love is perfected in us.13 Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and
he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit.14 And we have seen and do
testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world.15 Whosoever
shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in
God.16 And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is
love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him.17 Herein is
our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment:
because as he is, so are we in this world. KJV

Did Christ Claim to be God the father and how is this a lot easier to
understand when we drop the body image and see through the eyes of Love
Gods invisible spiritual form?

Col 1:13-17 13 Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath
translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son:14 In whom we have
redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins:15 Who is the
image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature:16 For by
him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and
invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers:
all things were created by him, and for him:17 And he is before all things, and
by him all things consist. KJV

Why do we violate the commandment to not have imagery of God?
Ex 20:3-7 Thou shalt have no other gods before me.4 Thou shalt not make
unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven
above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:

5 Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the Lord thy
God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto
the third and fourth generation of them that hate me;6 And shewing mercy unto
thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments.7 Thou shalt not

take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him
guiltless that taketh his name in vain. KJV

What form does God say he has?

John 4:23-24 23 But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers
shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to
worship him.24 God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship
him in spirit and in truth. KJV

How has man tried to fix this dilemma with all our images of God and has
this sometimes resulted in a down grading of Christ to be less than God?

John 6:45-46 It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God.
Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh
unto me.46 Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which
is of God, he hath seen the Father. KJV

How does Christ show the Father, physically or Spiritually?

John 14:6-12
Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto
the Father, but by me.7 If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father
also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him.8
Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us.9 Jesus saith
unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not
known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how
sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?10 Believest thou not that I am in the
Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak unto you I speak not of
myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works.11 Believe me
that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very
works&#39; sake.12 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works
that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go
unto my Father. KJV

Is God spiritual and invisible to flesh and blood understanding?

1 Cor 2:5-16 That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in
the power of God.6 Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect: yet
not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come to
nought:7 But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden
wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory:8 Which none
of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it, they would not have
crucified the Lord of glory.9 But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear
heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath
prepared for them that love him.10 But God hath revealed them unto us by his
Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.

11 For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in
him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God.12 Now
we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that
we might know the things that are freely given to us of God.13 Which things
also we speak, not in the words which man&#39;s wisdom teacheth, but which
the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with
spiritual.14 But the natural man receiveth not the things of
the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither
can he know them, because they are spiritually
discerned.15 But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is
judged of no man.16 For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he may
instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. KJV

1 John 2:26-29 These things have I written unto you concerning them that
seduce you.27 But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you,
and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing teacheth you
of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall
abide in him. 28 And now, little children, abide in him; that, when he
shall appear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed
before him at his coming.29 If ye know that he is righteous, ye know
that every one that doeth righteousness is born of him. KJV

If all will appear before the judgment seat of Christ where and when is this?

Heb 9:26-28 For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the
world: but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by
the sacrifice of himself.27 And as it is appointed unto men once
to die, but after this the judgment:28 So Christ was once offered to
bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the
second time without sin unto salvation. KJV

Why is it that we can only truly see God properly when he physically is not
there? When Did Christ tell them the things they could not yet understand?

John 16:7-17 Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go
away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I
depart, I will send him unto you.8 And when he is come, he will reprove the
world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment:9 Of sin, because they
believe not on me;10 Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see
me no more;11 Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged.12 I
have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear
them now.13 Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide
you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall
hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come.14 He shall
glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it
unto you.15 All things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he
shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you.16 A little while, and ye shall not
see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me, because I go
to the Father.17 Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What
is this that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a
little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I go to the Father? KJV

John 14:16-20 And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another
Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;17 Even the Spirit of truth;
whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not,
neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in
you.18 I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.19 Yet a little
while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me:

because I live, ye shall live also.20 At that day ye shall know that I am in my
Father, and ye in me, and I in you. KJV

How can flesh and blood dwell in God?
If the bible says when we die we are Judged by whether we are in Christ dead
to sin and spiritually raised and born why do we still want the physical Jesus
that the world of flesh and blood cannot see nor inherit?
What does that reveal about us?

1 John 4:15-18 15 Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God
dwelleth in him, and he in God.16 And we have known and believed the love
that God hath to us. God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in
God, and God in him.17 Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have
boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are
we in this world.18 There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out
fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. KJV

If John saw the physical body of the risen Lord how come, he can say he does
not yet know what he will be like if we will be like Christ?
Is John calling us to a deeper understanding of how the invisible God
spiritually manifests in image in the realm of his kingdom which at death we
finally see?
Why does John say we don’t know what form God will take when we shall see
him or what form we shall be other than like him?

1 John 3:1-10 Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us,
that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not,
because it knew him not.2 Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth
not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that,
when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall
see him as he is.3 And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth
himself, even as he is pure.4 Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the
law: for sin is the transgression of the law.5 And ye know that he was
manifested to take away our sins; and in him is no sin.6 Whosoever

abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him,
neither known him.7 Little children, let no man deceive you: he that doeth
righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.8 He that committeth sin is of
the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of
God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.9 Whosoever
is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seed remaineth in him: and he
cannot sin, because he is born of God.10 In this the children of God are
manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not
of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. KJV

In the next verse Paul is in congruence with John that we are to know our
resurrection body is spiritual a form of which we Know not the image of. But
when God comes to us at death we shall finally see the mystery revealed.
What harm is created when we work within the flesh and blood principles of
the form we take and even make Jesus have this same image and God as an
old man on a cloud in glory?
1 Cor 15:34-54
Awake to righteousness, and sin not; for some have not the knowledge of God:
I speak this to your shame.35 But some man will say, How are the dead
raised up? and with what body do they come?36 Thou fool, that
which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die:37 And that which thou
sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be,
but bare grain, it may chance of wheat, or of some other grain:38 But God
giveth it a body as it hath pleased him, and to every seed his own body.39 All
flesh is not the same flesh: but there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of
beasts, another of fishes, and another of birds.40 There are also celestial bodies,
and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the
terrestrial is another.41 There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the
moon, and another glory of the stars: for one star differeth from another star in
glory.42 So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is
raised in incorruption:43 It is sown in dishonour; it is raised in glory: it is sown
in weakness; it is raised in power:44 It is sown a natural body; it is
raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there
is a spiritual body.
45 And so it is written, The first man Adam was made a living soul; the last
Adam was made a quickening spirit.46 Howbeit that was not first which is
spiritual, but that which is natural; and afterward that which is spiritual.47 The

first man is of the earth, earthy: the second man is the Lord from
heaven.48 As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy: and as is the
heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly.49 And as we have borne the
image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly.50 Now this
I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God;
neither doth corruption inherit incorruption.51 Behold, I shew you a mystery;
We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,52 In a moment, in the
twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead
shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.53 For this corruptible
must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.54 So when
this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on
immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is
swallowed up in victory. KJV

What part is Paul apart of is he…
with the dead in Christ which rose first
or with those who go a different way at death?
We who remain means Paul saw himself as part of the “ we” and those who
went with Christ went first have already gone when the graves were opened.

1 Thess 4:13-18 But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning
them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no
hope.14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also
which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.15 For this we say unto
you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the
coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep.16 For the Lord
himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel,
and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first:17 Then we
which are alive and remain shall be caught up together
with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so
shall we ever be with the Lord.18 Wherefore comfort one another with these
words. KJV

How far will you go for love?

 How much pain will you endure for love?
 Have you ever experienced the hollowness of life?
 Does sometimes everything you do seem to be in vain and come to
nothing?
 Are you willing to be tender in love when confronted with abrupt
situations?
 Are you prepared to no longer see yourself in respect to others ever
again?
 Are you willing to be humiliated for love?
 Are you willing to be consistent in all things for love?
 Are you willing to live solely for others in love?
 Are you willing to be not antagonised by others by the power of love?
 Are you willing to never repay evil for evil but rather only give love?
 Are you willing to pray for enemy’s salvation with tears of love?
 Are you willing to find all your joy in God’s love alone?
 Are you willing to carry other’s burdens in love?
 Are you willing to believe and hope in love unto the end?
 Are you willing to believe that love can achieve all that is in this list
perfectly and will never fail?

Now ask yourself this all-important question:
What can love now make redundant in your life, as childish ways are
supplanted by the maturity of God’s love?

1 Cor 13
If with the tongues of men and of messengers I speak, and have not love, I have
become brass sounding, or a cymbal tinkling;2 and if I have prophecy, and
know all the secrets, and all the knowledge, and if I have all the faith, so as to
remove mountains, and have not love, I am nothing;3 and if I give away to
feed others all my goods, and if I give up my body that I may be burned, and
have not love, I am profited nothing.4 The love is long-suffering, it is
kind, the love doth not envy, the love doth not vaunt itself, is not
puffed up,5 doth not act unseemly, doth not seek its own things, is
not provoked, doth not impute evil,6 rejoiceth not over the
unrighteousness, and rejoiceth with the truth;7 all things it beareth,
all it believeth, all it hopeth, all it endureth.8 The love doth never
fail; and whether [there be] prophecies, they shall become useless; whether
tongues, they shall cease; whether knowledge, it shall become useless;9 for in
part we know, and in part we prophecy;10 and when that which is perfect may
come, then that which [is] in part shall become useless.11 When I was a babe,
as a babe I was speaking, as a babe I was thinking, as a babe I was reasoning,
and when I have become a man, I have made useless the things of the babe;12
for we see now through a mirror obscurely, and then face to face; now I know in
part, and then I shall fully know, as also I was known;13 and now there doth
remain faith, hope, love — these three; and the greatest of these [is] love.

Bible study spiritual adultery.

Rom 4:8-9:33
8 Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin.9 Cometh this
blessedness then upon the circumcision only, or upon the uncircumcision also?
for we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness.10 How was it
then reckoned? when he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in
circumcision, but in uncircumcision.11 And he received the sign of
circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had yet being
uncircumcised: that he might be the father of all them that believe, though they
be not circumcised; that righteousness might be imputed unto them also:
12 And the father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcision only,
but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had
being yet uncircumcised.13 For the promise, that he should be the heir of the
world, was not to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through the
righteousness of faith.14 For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made
void, and the promise made of none effect:15 Because the law worketh wrath:
for where no law is, there is no transgression.16 Therefore it is of faith, that it
might be by grace; to the end the promise might be sure to all the seed; not to
that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham;
who is the father of us all,17 (As it is written, I have made thee a father of many
nations,) before him whom he believed, even God, who quickeneth the dead,
and calleth those things which be not as though they were.18 Who against hope
believed in hope, that he might become the father of many nations; according to
that which was spoken, So shall thy seed be.19 And being not weak in faith, he
considered not his own body now dead, when he was about an hundred years
old, neither yet the deadness of Sara&#39;s womb:20 He staggered not at the promise
of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God;21 And
being fully persuaded that, what he had promised, he was able also to perform.
22 And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness.23 Now it was not
written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to him;24 But for us also, to
whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord
from the dead;25 Who was delivered for our offences, and was raised
again for our justification.

2
When reading through romans 5 consider the following points being made.
 That access into the most Holy place is a place of grace in the here and
now.
 That love is the manifestation of Gods Spirit in our hearts.
 That Gods enemy is sin and death.
 That without the Spirit of God in us we are without strength and are
engulfed in sin.
 That the cross of Calvary has two essential parts in which his death
only justifies and reconciles. So what is it that saves us and how is this
atonement also linked into the concept that we have access into the
most holy place of his grace in the here and now?
 That the reign of righteousness in your life( the Kingdom of God) is the
amalgamation of oneness of Christs resurrection and yours intertwined
which is called in the bible eternal life.
Romans 5

Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord
Jesus Christ:2 By whom also we have access by faith into this
grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of
God.
3 And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing that tribulation
worketh patience;4 And patience, experience; and experience, hope:5 And hope
maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in
our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us.
6 For when we were yet without strength, in due time
Christ died for the ungodly.7 For scarcely for a righteous man
will one die: yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die.8
But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet
sinners, Christ died for us.9 Much more then, being
now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from
wrath through him.10 For if, when we were enemies,
we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much
more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life.
11 And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by
whom we have now received the atonement.

3
12 Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin;
and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:13 (For until the law
sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed when there is no law.14
Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over
them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam&#39;s transgression, who is the
figure of him that was to come.
15 But not as the offence, so also is the free gift. For if through the offence of
one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace, which is
by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many.
16 And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift: for the judgment was by
one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many offences unto justification.
17 For if by one man&#39;s offence death reigned by one; much more they which
receive abundance of grace and of the gift of
righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.)
18 Therefore as by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to
condemnation; even so by the righteousness of one the free gift
came upon all men unto justification of life.
19 For as by one man&#39;s disobedience many were made sinners, so by the
obedience of one shall many be made righteous.
20 Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin
abounded, grace did much more abound:
21 That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign
through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our
Lord.

When reading through Romans 6 consider the following.
 That the body of sin is already destroyed
 That death no longer has dominion over us
 That Eternal life has already begun

4
 That the reign of sin is over for those who walk in the newness of life
 That we are not in bondage of sin but rather enslaved to righteousness.
 That law puts a ritual “holy” man in the most holy place but grace puts
a Holy in God in us
 That eternal life is not by what God did 2000 years ago but rather by
what God is now doing through his reign of Righteousness in you
today.

Romans 6

What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?
2 God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?
3 Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were
baptized into his death?4 Therefore we are buried with him by
baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from
the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also
should walk in newness of life.5 For if we have been planted
together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness
of his resurrection:6 Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with
him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not
serve sin.
7 For he that is dead is freed from sin.8 Now if we be dead with
Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:9 Knowing that Christ being
raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more
dominion over him.10 For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in
that he liveth, he liveth unto God.11 Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be
dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the
lusts thereof.13 Neither yield ye your members as instruments of
unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that
are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments
of righteousness unto God.14 For sin shall not have dominion over
you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace.15 What then? shall we
sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.16 Know ye
not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to
whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto
righteousness?17 But God be thanked, that ye were the servants of sin, but ye

5
have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you.18
Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of
righteousness.19 I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity
of your flesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and
to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to
righteousness unto holiness.20 For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were
free from righteousness.21 What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are
now ashamed? for the end of those things is death.22 But now being
made free from sin, and become servants to God, ye have
your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life.23 For
the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life
through Jesus Christ our Lord.

When reading through Roman 7 consider the following.
 That Romans 7 must be read in respect to what is said in chapter
4,5,6,8, and 9 of Romans
 That the law we are divorced from is not just the sacrificial law a term
never used in the bible despite what you may have been told.
 That we can only be united to Christ in the principles Cleary specified
in the previous chapters if WE ARE DIVORED FROM THE LAW BY
DEATH.

6

 That to keep the law and Christ is spiritual adultery.
 That an outward obedience to the law by carnal righteousness makes a
mockery of the internal righteousness by God living in you .
 That the law is dead to us and we are dead to it
 That we are now alive and married to God Yes… the eternal God who
raised both Christ and us from the pit.
 That Paul was only subject to the carnal law prior to his deliverance
from the body of death which is a reflection of his old nature and NOT
HIS PRESENT CONDITION WHERE HE Now WALKS IN THE
NEWNESS OF THE SPIRIT AND delivered from the body of death
By Christ.
 That the above point has been used to justify are carnal nature and to
evict God from his temple as we become carnal Christians.

Roman 7

7 Know ye not, brethren, (for I speak to them that know the law,) how that the
law hath dominion over a man as long as he liveth?2 For the woman which hath
an husband is bound by the law to her husband so long as he liveth; but if the
husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband.

3 So then if, while her husband liveth, she be married to another man, she shall
be called an adulteress: but if her husband be dead, she is free from that law; so
that she is no adulteress, though she be married to another man.4 Wherefore, my
brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of
Christ; that ye should be married to another, even to him
who is raised from the dead, that we should bring forth
fruit unto God.5 For when we were in the flesh, the motions of sins, which
were by the law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death.6 But
now we are delivered from the law, that being dead
wherein we were held; that we should serve in newness of
spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter.7 What shall we say
then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law: for I
had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet.8 But sin,
taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of
concupiscence. For without the law sin was dead.9 For I was alive without the
law once: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died.10 And the
commandment, which was ordained to life, I found to be unto death.11 For sin,

7
taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me.12
Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good.
13 Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid. But sin, that it
might appear sin, working death in me by that which is good; that sin by the
commandment might become exceeding sinful.14 For we know that the law is
spiritual: but I am carnal, sold under sin.15 For that which I do I allow not: for
what I would, that do I not; but what I hate, that do I.16 If then I do that which I
would not, I consent unto the law that it is good.17 Now then it is no
more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.18 For I know
that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing: for
to will is present with me; but how to perform that which is good I find not.
19 For the good that I would I do not: but the evil which I would not, that I do.
20 Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in
me.21 I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present with me.
22 For I delight in the law of God after the inward man:23 But I see another
law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me
into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members.24 O wretched
man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body of this
death?25 I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then with the mind I
myself serve the law of God; but with the flesh the law of sin.

When reading through Romans 8 consider thefollowing,
 That the war in our flesh spoken of in roman 7 cannot exist if the felsh
has been crucified and the walk we have is now in the Spirit.
 That the law only ever could speak to the flesh and condemn it and
could not change us into vessels of Righteousness which we become
when the spirit of life in Christ comes and lives in you.
 That the cosmic battle is played out in the human heart which the flesh
wars with the Spirit.
 That Gods enemy is a carnal mind which denies the Spiritual
atonement.

8
 That if the traditional viewpoint that Paul served his carnal desire
through the flesh and was a captive of sin… than Romans 8 tells us he
was dead and did not have eternal life abiding I him.
 That his death Justifies but him living in us is our glorification which
has also given to us now.
 That when we are in the state of glorification nothing can oppose us or
separate us from Gods love.
 That the intersession that Christ makes for us is in us as He helps us in
the difficulties of this life it is not an eternal Christ in the heavenly
standing before a holy unapproachable God continually washing out
your sins.

Romans 8

There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ
Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
2 For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made
me free from the law of sin and death.
3 For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God
sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin
in the flesh:
4 That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in
us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
5 For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh; but they that
are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit.
6 For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and
peace.
7 Because the carnal mind is enmity against God: for it is not subject to the
law of God, neither indeed can be.8 So then they that are in the flesh cannot
please God.9 But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so
be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the
Spirit of Christ, he is none of his.
10 And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the Spirit is life
because of righteousness.

9
11 But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the
dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead
shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that
dwelleth in you.12 Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to
live after the flesh.13 For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die: but if ye
through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye
shall live.
14 For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God.15 For
ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear; but ye have received
the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.16 The Spirit itself
beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of
God:17 And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if
so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together.
18 For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be
compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us.19 For
the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons
of God.20 For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by
reason of him who hath subjected the same in hope,21 Because the creature
itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption
into the glorious liberty of the children of God.22 For we know
that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now.
23 And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the firstfruits of the
Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption,
to wit, the redemption of our body.
24 For we are saved by hope: but hope that is seen is not hope: for what a man
seeth, why doth he yet hope for?25 But if we hope for that we see not, then do
we with patience wait for it.26 Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities:
for we know not what we should pray for as we ought: but the Spirit itself
maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.27 And he
that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he
maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God.28 And we know
that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are
the called according to his purpose.
29 For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the
image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren.30
Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom he
called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them

10
he also glorified.31 What shall we then say to these things? If God be
for us, who can be against us?32 He that spared not his own Son,
but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all
things?33 Who shall lay any thing to the charge of God&#39;s elect? It is God that
justifieth.34 Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is
risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh
intercession for us.35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall
tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or
sword?36 As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are
accounted as sheep for the slaughter.37 Nay, in all these things we are more
than conquerors through him that loved us.38 For I am persuaded, that
neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things
present, nor things to come,39 Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature,
shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our
Lord.

As you read through Romans 9 consider the following.
You observed that…..

11

Romans 9

I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the
Holy Ghost,2 That I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart.
3 For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my
kinsmen according to the flesh:4 Who are Israelites; to whom pertaineth the
adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the
service of God, and the promises;5 Whose are the fathers, and of whom as
concerning the flesh Christ came, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen.
6 Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect. For they are not
all Israel, which are of Israel:7 Neither, because they are the seed of
Abraham, are they all children: but, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.8 That is,
They which are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God: but
the children of the promise are counted for the seed.9 For this is the word of
promise, At this time will I come, and Sara shall have a son.10 And not only
this; but when Rebecca also had conceived by one, even by our father Isaac;11
(For the children being not yet born, neither having done any good or evil, that
the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him
that calleth;)12 It was said unto her, The elder shall serve the younger.13 As it
is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.14 What shall we say then?
Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid.15 For he saith to Moses, I will
have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I
will have compassion.16 So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that
runneth, but of God that sheweth mercy.17 For the scripture saith
unto Pharaoh, Even for this same purpose have I raised
thee up, that I might shew my power in thee, and that my
name might be declared throughout all the earth.18 Therefore
hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he
will he hardeneth.
19 Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find fault? For who hath
resisted his will?20 Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God?
Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me thus?
21 Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same
lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto
dishonour?22 What if God, willing to shew his wrath, and to make his
power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessels of wrath fitted to
destruction:23 And that he might make known the riches of his glory on the
vessels of mercy, which he had afore prepared unto glory,24 Even us, whom he
hath called, not of the Jews only, but also of the Gentiles?25 As he saith also in

12
Osee, I will call them my people, which were not my people; and her beloved,
which was not beloved.26 And it shall come to pass, that in the place where it
was said unto them, Ye are not my people; there shall they be
called the children of the living God.27 Esaias also crieth
concerning Israel, Though the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of
the sea, a remnant shall be saved:28 For he will finish the work, and cut it short
in righteousness: because a short work will the Lord make upon the earth.29
And as Esaias said before, Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us a seed, we
had been as Sodoma, and been made like unto Gomorrha.30 What shall we say
then? That the Gentiles, which followed not after righteousness, have
attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith.31 But
Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to
the law of righteousness.32 Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith,
but as it were by the works of the law. For they stumbled at that
stumblingstone;33 As it is written, Behold, I lay in Sion a stumblingstone and
rock of offence: and whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.KJV

The State of

the living

What happens when we are made alive?

Ps 119:93-94

I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened
me.94 I am thine, save me; for I have sought thy precepts. KJV

This study is dedicated to God and his glory

Isa 28:9-10

Whom shall he teach knowledge? and whom
shall he make to understand doctrine? them that

2
are weaned from the milk, and drawn from the

breasts.

10 For precept must be upon precept, precept
upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here

a little, and there a little:

KJV

Disclaimer: The content of this study is not aimed at offending any, but I acknowledged
that some may feel their faith is challenged. The study is shared in sincerity and truth and
it is what I believe to the best of my knowledge to be true. Spelling and punctuation is not
my strong point so feel free to correct any errors or write on the study your own personal
notes. If this bible study is found by you to be liberating and grounded in God’s word, I
humbly ask that you do as I have done and share it with someone.

God Bless

Bible study: on the state of the living
As opposed to the state of the dead.

In order to keep the following bible verse hidden, some church’s Ignore
the Eternal nature of Spiritual rebirth by honing in on spiritualism and
communication with the dead. Because of the idea, the dead “know

3
nothing” also includes those reborn in Christ, many people ignore what
the scriptures plainly teach about the Spiritual Body we have in Christ and
throw the term spiritualisers around to scare people away from this
beautiful revelation.
The idea to some that we have eternal life in Christ now, which death
cannot separate us from his presence is foreign to their thinking.
Unfortunately, some churches teach that the immortality of the soul even
in Christ is not victorious over the physical death but the body and soul is
inactive until some future event when God has finished judging the world
and he then finally returns. It is then and only then that all the finished
work of the cross is activated at this second advent.
If this is your reality, then what is contained in this study will bring a
fullness of the joy of salvation to your heart that will be overwhelming as
the love of God leaps of the pages of his word and warms your heart. So if
you are willing, lets discover some biblical truths as to what has been done
for us in Christ Jesus.
Throughout this study questions will be asked on topics that few familiar
with the doctrine of Soul sleep may of ever considered. Like..

QUESTION: What did Christ not do on the cross that only the second
coming will fulfil?

Note in the opening Bible verse the different states at death one lives on in
paradise known as Abraham’s bosom and the other is dead and buried.
This is the key component….. That there is no communication between
these two states. Whilst it is true that the dead know nothing the one in
Abraham’s bosom having left this world, is not dead. The confusion within
the text is used to mystify people and the text is not very clear nor is it

4
understandable unless it is viewed in light of everything the bible states on
this topic.

Luke 16:19-31
There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared
sumptuously every day:
20 And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of
sores,21 And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man&#39;s table:
moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.22 And it came to pass, that the beggar died,
and was carried by the angels into Abraham&#39;s bosom: the rich man also died, and
was buried;23 And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar
off, and Lazarus in his bosom.24 And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on
me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue;
for I am tormented in this flame.25 But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy
lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is
comforted, and thou art tormented.
26 And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they
which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would
come from thence.
27 Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father&#39;s
house:28 For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into
this place of torment.29 Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let
them hear them.30 And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the
dead, they will repent.31 And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets,
neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead. KJV
QUESTION: How important to your faith is the testimony of one who rose
from the dead?
If there is no distinction at death and all sleep in the ground till the second
Advent then what is the purpose of this teaching of Christ?
***********************

5
Now consider if all sleep at death both Good and bad and await the second
coming to be raised to Judgment what on earth is this story about? Where
is the soul sleep for the one who Goes to paradise?
First before we can even try to answer these questions it is necessary to
establish whether a soul in spiritual rebirth can exist in Christ outside of
the body, because if this cannot be shown from God’s word then the Souls
sleep doctrine has some merit. Then if this is true the rich man and
Lazarus story is just a confusing parable.

QUESTION: Does Christ ever teach that separate from the body there is a
soul?
Matt 10:27-28
What I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear, that
preach ye upon the housetops.28 And fear not them which kill the body, but are not
able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in
hell. KJV

QUESTION: If soul sleep is true, to kill the body also destroys the soul
because outside of our “breath” nothing eternal exists in us, as only God
is eternal. Why does Christ make the distinction between the body and soul
then?

Let’s look at the genesis of this belief and see if it agrees.

Gen 2:7
And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils
the breath of life; and man became a living soul. KJV

6
The idea that is propagated by soul sleep is that a living soul is defined as
one who has breath in his lungs. It is to also essential to interpret the
death of Adam a certain way to make this belief work. God said in the day
you eat of the fruit you will surely die; the soul sleep doctrine say no they
only began to die.
QUESTION: Does one belief side more with the serpent then with God’s
commandment.

God says…Gen 2:17
But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day
that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. KJV

The serpent says.. Gen 3:3-5
But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall
not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.4 And the serpent said unto the woman,
Ye shall not surely die:5 For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your
eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. KJV

Soul sleep doctrine sides more with the serpent then with God and says the
only began to die ignoring the command that IN THE DAY YOU IT OF
IT YOU WILL SURLEY DIE, that is to say, that day death came to Adam
and all mankind.
If Adam died that day then the image of God which he was made in the
likeness of was not this clay flesh vessel we know of as the body. It must
have been the image of the spiritual body.
QUESTION: Did Adam die that day in the garden or 929 years later?
QUESTION: Does the bible make a distinction of the image of Adam and
the Spiritual image of God?

7
Is it logical to believe that Adam’s pre-fallen image was this spiritual
image that is restored to us in Christ?

1 Cor 15:46,49
Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; and afterward
that which is spiritual.47 The first man is of the earth, earthy: the second man is the
Lord from heaven.48 As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy: and as is the
heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly.49 And as we have borne the
image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the
heavenly. KJV

QUESTION: Have you for the first realised that what is in the mirror is
not made in the image of God but rather in the image of Adam ?

2 Cor 3:17-18
Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is
liberty.18 But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are
changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the
Spirit of the Lord. KJV
Rom 6:5
For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also
in the likeness of his resurrection: KJV

John 4:23-24
But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in
spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him.24 God is a Spirit: and
they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. KJV

Because Adam no longer abided in the spiritual habitation of the Holiest
of all we see all the allegories of being naked, ashamed, concealing sin,
blaming others, begin to manifest into creation.

8
QUESTIONS: Does the question God asked Adam ‘where are you” have a
new meaning in light of this understanding. Can you hear God asking us
the very same question “where are you’? Do you abide in me? If we have
eyes to see it, the whole Gospel story is encapsulated in Who Adam was
before the fall who he was after and God’s call which still echoes
throughout creation if you’re not abiding in me where are you?

QUESTION: Can you see the Genesis story in the next verse that Adam is
a branch that no longer abided in God was severed from the source of life
was cast forth and withered and died and was later purged in the fires of
Gods judgment on the cross and cleansed.
John 15:3-8
Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you.4 Abide in
me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the
vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me.5 I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that
abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do
nothing.6 If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and
is withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire,
and they are burned.7 If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask
what ye will, and it shall be done unto you.8 Herein is my Father glorified,
that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples.KJV

The idea that we have a Spiritual body has been interpreted to mean in the
minds of some to be nothing more than a breath.
What did God breath into Adam in the “breathe of Life” was it air into his
lungs or was it His spirit that made him become a living soul?
What did God breath upon the disciples because the word Spirit (5397)
used in genesis can be interpreted the same here in …..
John 20:21-23

9
Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: as my Father hath sent
me, even so send I you.22 And when he had said this, he breathed (1720)
on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost (4151) :23
Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever
sins ye retain, they are retained.KJV
How could we think for a moment that Jesus Breathed on them the holy
breath?
ELPS Word-studies
4151 pneúma – properly, spirit (Spirit), wind, or breath. The most frequent
meaning (translation) of 4151 (pneúma) in the NT is &quot;spirit&quot; (&quot;Spirit&quot;).
Only the context however determines which sense(s) is meant.
Did the infilling of God’s “spirit” or “breath” happen on the day of
Pentecost?
Breathed
1720. emphusaó ►
Strong&#39;s Concordance
emphusaó: to breathe into or upon
Original Word: ἐμφυσάω
Part of Speech: Verb
Transliteration: emphusaó
Phonetic Spelling: (em-foo-sah&#39;-o)
Short Definition: I breathe into, breathe upon
Definition: I breathe into, breathe upon.
HELPS Word-studies
1720 emphysáō (from 1722 /en, &quot;in&quot; and physaō, &quot;breathe, blow&quot;) –
properly, breathe (blow) in. 1720 (emphysáō) is only used in Jn 20:22
where Christ breathed into the apostles. By &quot;breathing in Christ&#39;s
inbreathing,&quot; 1720 (emphysáō) prefigures &quot;the promise of the Father,&quot;
fulfilled on the Day of Pentecost (Lk 24:49; Ac 1:4; Ac 2:1f).

10
NAS Exhaustive Concordance Word Origin from en and phusaó (to blow)
Definition:to breathe into or upon
NASB Translation: breathed (1).
5397. neshamah ►
Strong&#39;s Concordance
neshamah: breath
Original Word: נְשָׁמָה
Part of Speech: Noun Feminine
Transliteration: neshamah
Phonetic Spelling: (nesh-aw-maw&#39;)
Short Definition: breath
NAS Exhaustive Concordance
Word Origin from nasham
Definition: breath
NASB Translation
blast (2), breath (15), breathes (1), life (1), persons alive (1), spirit (2), who
breathed (3).
Strong&#39;s Exhaustive Concordance
blast, that breaths, inspiration, soul, spirit
From nasham; a puff, i.e. Wind, angry or vital breath, divine inspiration,
intellect. Or (concretely) an animal -- blast, (that) breath(-eth), inspiration,
soul, spirit. see HEBREW nasham
Did God restore the image in man that died in Adam when he sinned?
Did God’s Spirit leave Adam when he sinned?
If the spirit of God breathed into Adam made him alive did the break in
this atonement and the removal of this spirit make him dead?

11
Did Christ through the Atonement open for us the way back into the
holiest of all and God breathed his divine spirit like as in a rushing wind
back into those who were willing to receive it?
If we so no it was just air God put into Adam a simple “ breath”, does the
gospel remain hidden?
But if it is to be true that God put his spirit inside Adam and this spiritual
breath of life is the true image of God in which Adam was made, then the
word of God must reflect this precept from first till last.
The bible should clearly state that anyone alive without the spirit of God
living in and through them is defined as being DEAD. That the dead can
be quickened, which is to say brought to life by the spirit of God entering
back into their dead mortal bodies and bring them back to life. The bible
must also define this spiritual rebirth as being reborn not back into the
flesh but back into the spiritual image that died in Adam which no longer
lives in bondage to the flesh.

To the person who believes in soul sleep they may well remember the bible
verse which clearly show that the word for spirit means breath in this
situation.

Was it air breath that made Adam a living soul?

12
QUESTION: Does the idea that breath and spirit is one and the same, sit
in harmony with what the bible teaches?

Ps 104:29-30
Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their
breath,(7307) they die, and return to their dust.30 Thou sendest forth thy
spirit, (7307) they are created: and thou renewest the face of the earth. KJV

When we look at the verse above we can see the same word is expressed in
different ways in the English. In fact (7307) the “spirit” appears multiple
times in the bible where the word spirit means breath. So if we use the 27
examples of this when it occurs we can from the bible show that breath
means spirit.

QUESTIONS: If 27 bible verses all agree that soul sleep is right do you
think that is adequate?
How important is it to employ the principle of precepts when studying
topics like the one in question?
If you answered yes then there is a problem, that is we have to ignore the
232 times that the word spirit means spirit. Now if this is first time you
have realised this you may feel a little duped and that is normal.
The KJV translates Strong&#39;s H7307 in the following manner: Spirit or
spirit (232x), wind (92x), breath (27x), side (6x), mind (5x), blast (4x), vain
(2x), air (1x), anger (1x), cool (1x), courage (1x), miscellaneous (6x).

Now if we try the NASB version we can get 4 more translation for the
word meaning breath but that’s all. If we are to believe in a soul sleep
doctrine it is necessary to prove that no such spirit exists.

13

Spirit ◄ 7307. ruach ►
Strong&#39;s Concordance
ruach: breath, wind, spirit
Original Word: ר֫וּחַ
Part of Speech: Noun Feminine
Transliteration: ruach
Phonetic Spelling: (roo&#39;-akh)
Short Definition: spirit
NAS Exhaustive Concordance
Word Origin
from an unused word
Definition
breath, wind, spirit
NASB Translation
air (2), anger (1), blast (2), breath (31), breathless* (1), cool (1), courage
(1), despondency* (1), exposed (1), grief* (1), heart (1), inspired (1), mind
(3), motives (1), points (1), quick-tempered* (1), side (4), sides (2), Spirit
(76), spirit (127), spirits (3), strength (1), temper (2), thoughts* (1),
trustworthy* (1), wind (98), winds (7), windy (2), wrath (1).

QUESTION: Is it possible the translators got it wrong?
But there is a problem with this approach as well, because in the New
Testament the word which could be rendered breath in the Old Testament
is now almost exclusively translated to mean Spirit in the New Testament.

1 Thessalonians 5:23 - And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and
[I pray God] your whole spirit(4151) and soul and body be preserved
blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.

14

4151. pneuma Strong&#39;s Concordance
pneuma: wind, spirit
Original Word: πνεῦμα, ατος, τό
Part of Speech: Noun, Neuter
Transliteration: pneuma
Phonetic Spelling: (pnyoo&#39;-mah)
Short Definition: wind, breath, spirit
Definition: wind, breath, spirit.
HELPS Word-studies
4151 pneúma – properly, spirit (Spirit), wind, or breath. The most
frequent meaning (translation) of 4151 (pneúma) in the NT is
&quot;spirit&quot; (&quot;Spirit&quot;). Only the context however determines which sense(s) is
meant.

[Any of the above renderings (spirit-Spirit, wind, breath) of 4151
(pneúma) is always theoretically possible (spirit, Spirit, wind, breath).
But when the attributive adjective (&quot;holy&quot;) is used, it always refers to the
Holy Spirit. &quot;Spirit&quot; (&quot;spirit&quot;) is by far the most common translation
(application) of 4151 (pneúma).

The Hebrew counterpart (rûach) has the same range of meaning as 4151
(pneúma), i.e. it likewise can refer to spirit/Spirit, wind, or breath.]

Now as we read this next verse consider that the word used for spirit is
4151 in every use of the word in the text. Now if the Spirit bears witness
with our spirit because we have received his spirit is this just a breath? It
makes absolutely no sense to read it like this.

15

Rom 8:11-16
But if the Spirit (4151) of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in
you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal
bodies by his Spirit (4151) that dwelleth in you.12 Therefore, brethren, we
are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh.13 For if ye live after the
flesh, ye shall die: but if ye through the Spirit (4151) do mortify the deeds
of the body, ye shall live.14 For as many as are led by the Spirit (4151) of
God, they are the sons of God.15 For ye have not received the spirit (4151)
of bondage again to fear; but ye have received the Spirit(4151) of adoption,
whereby we cry, Abba, Father.16 The Spirit (4151) itself beareth witness
with our spirit (4151), that we are the children of God:

Having established that spirit does not exclusively mean breath when
relating to the spirit we now possess, we can move on to see how God has
given us more than an eternal breath but something far more beautiful.

1 Cor 2:11-14
For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit (4151) of man
which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit
(4151) of God.12 Now we have received, not the spirit (4151) of the
world, but the spirit(4151) which is of God; that we might know the things
that are freely given to us of God.13 Which things also we speak, not in the
words which man&#39;s wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth;
comparing spiritual things with spiritual.
14 But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit (4151) of God:
for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they
are spiritually discerned.KJV

16
As someone who once believed in soul sleep when I discovered these verses
I tried to make them fit the doctrine I had believed for so long. The only
logical conclusion was that the translators and most Christains today have
it wrong and that this soul sleep doctrine had to be right then I would read
a verse like the next one which would have me doing some mental
gymnastics.
These contortions went a bit like.. I know I have eternal life now but at
death , I sleep and I’m not really dead because I’m saved, then at some
future time when God finally judges the world he will wake me up from
the grave and even though I was separated by death , it was just like a
blink and there’s Jesus ready to translate me into immortality.

QUESTION: Does such a belief sit in harmony with the next verses?

. 1 John 3:14-15
We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the
brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death.15 Whosoever hateth his brother
is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.
KJV

Then I would read this verse which said I was already born again of
incorruption because of the word abiding in me. It spoke to me that the
man or woman in Christ will never see death.

1 Peter 1:21-25
Who by him do believe in God, that raised him up from the dead, and gave him glory;
that your faith and hope might be in God.22 Seeing ye have purified your souls in
obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love
one another with a pure heart fervently:23 Being born again, not of
corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which
liveth and abideth for ever.24 For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man

17
as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away:25 But the
word of the Lord endureth for ever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached
unto you. KJV

QUESTION: But what if at death we are asleep is it possible to see this as
not being disconnected to the source of life and being separated from God

Rom 8:38-39
For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor
powers, nor things present, nor things to come,39 Nor height, nor depth, nor any other
creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in
Christ Jesus our Lord. KJV

So I may think ..ok ..I’m not separated from God just asleep when the body
is in the ground.
Then I read as if for the first time this next verse and discovered that I’m a
spiritual stone built up in the temple of God, that God made and not man
…And when I die I am clothed in this spiritual body because I have
received His spirit into my heart.. I found in the text the body Adam lost in
Eden which left him naked and the cloak of Christs righteousness fell
upon my heart and I felt the assurance that I had moved beyond the veil
and had received at-one-ment.

2 Cor 5:1-8
For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were
dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands,
eternal in the heavens.2 For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed
upon with our house which is from heaven:3 If so be that being clothed we shall not be
found naked.4 For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened: not for that
we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be
swallowed up of life.5 Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God,

18
who also hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit.6 Therefore we are
always confident, knowing that, whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from
the Lord:7 (For we walk by faith, not by sight:)8 We are confident, I say, and
willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be present with
the Lord. KJV
There is a reality that the bible states that we have not come to the Old
Testament mountain of God but rather to the heavenly one true mount
Zion. For many this is a future event, especially those who believe in soul
sleep as a doctrine. To such consider this next question.
Why does this verse say we have come already to the Heavenly Jerusalem
that Holy City?
Why does it say as of the reading of this verse that the kingdom is already
established and immovable?
Why is the church of the first born already in heaven ?
Why are there spirits of men made perfect in heaven witness to a great
multitude of Angels?
Why is this all bound up in the blood of Christ of the New Testament who
made atonement through the mediation of his Throne on Calvary when he
had come to the hour of his Glory?

Heb 12:18-29
For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, nor
unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest,19 And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice
of words; which voice they that heard intreated that the word should not be spoken to
them any more:20 (For they could not endure that which was commanded, And if so
much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart:21
And so terrible was the sight, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:)22 But ye
are come unto mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the
heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels,23 To
the general assembly and church of the
firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to
God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just
men made perfect,24 And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant,

19
and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel.25 See
that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spake
on earth, much more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from
heaven:26 Whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once
more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.27 And this word, Yet once more,
signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that
those things which cannot be shaken may remain.28 Wherefore we receiving a
kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God
acceptably with reverence and godly fear:29 For our God is a consuming fire. KJV

QUESTION: Is the way we live in this life having already been purgd in
the fires of Gods judgment in the cross when we were crucified with him? ,
Is His breath of divine Spirit in us the evidence of the miracle of Christ in
us our hope of glory. Do we bare in our body the marks of Christ his
image in us?

1 Peter 2:1-8
Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil
speakings,2 As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow
thereby:3 If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious.4 To whom coming, as unto
a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God, and precious,5 Ye
also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood,
to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.6 Wherefore also it is
contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and
he that believeth on him shall not be confounded.7 Unto you therefore which believe he
is precious: but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed,
the same is made the head of the corner,8 And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of
offence, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient: whereunto also they
were appointed. KJV

Bible verses like the next one were taking on new meaning.

20

John 14:1-3
Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me.2 In my
Father&#39;s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you.
I go to prepare a place for you.3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come
again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.
KJV

The soul sleep doctrine had not only skewed my view of what happened at
death but what I did not understand was that it had also robbed me of
what happens in this life in the here and Now. The idea of being born
again and having eternal life was the same as being Spirit filled and
practising holiness.

QUESTION: Are we still waiting for God to come down and dwell with
us?

1 Cor 6:18-20
Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth
fornication sinneth against his own body.19 What? know ye not that your
body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye
have of God, and ye are not your own?20 For ye are bought with a price:
therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God&#39;s. KJV

1 Tim 3:14-16
These things write I unto thee, hoping to come unto thee shortly:15 But if I tarry long,
that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the
house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the
truth.16 And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was
manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles,
believed on in the world, received up into glory. KJV

21
Are we waiting for events that the Bible says has already happened?
Phil 3:14-21
I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.15 Let us
therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and if in any thing ye be otherwise
minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.16 Nevertheless, whereto we have already
attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing.17 Brethren, be
followers together of me, and mark them which walk so as ye have us for an ensample.18
(For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they
are the enemies of the cross of Christ:19 Whose end is destruction, whose God is
their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly
things.)20 For our conversation is in heaven; from whence also we look for
the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:21 Who shall change our vile body, that it may be
fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is
able even to subdue all things unto himself.KJV

1 Cor 15:26-31
The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death.27 For he hath
put all things under his feet. But when he saith, all things are put under him,
it is manifest that he is excepted, which did put all things under him.28 And when all
things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that
put all things under him, that God may be all in all.29 Else what shall they do which are
baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? why are they then baptized for the
dead?30 And why stand we in jeopardy every hour?31 I protest by your rejoicing which I
have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily. KJV

2 Tim 1:8-12
Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but
be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God;9 Who
hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but
according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the
world began,10 But is now made manifest by the
appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath
abolished death, and hath brought life and
immortality to light through the gospel:11 Whereunto I
am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.12 For the which
cause I also suffer these things: nevertheless I am not ashamed: for I know whom I have
believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him
against that day. KJV

22
QUESTION: Has it been established using biblical precepts that we have
eternal life now and don’t wait for a future judgment?
Do we need God to investigate things to make atonement just before the
second coming?
Can we confidently agree that this occurred 2000 years ago?

John 5:24-25
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent
me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation;
but is passed from death unto life.25 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is
coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they
that hear shall live. KJV

QUESTION: Can we understand from biblical precepts that God makes
his abode with us now because he is not in the business remembering sins
because what constitutes life in him has victory over what constituted
death in the carnal mind?

Heb 10:16-23
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith the Lord, I will put
my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write them;17 And their sins and
iniquities will I remember no more.18 Now where remission of these is, there
is no more offering for sin.19 Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the
holiest by the blood of Jesus,20 By a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for
us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;21 And having an high priest over the house
of God;22 Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of
faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and

23
our bodies washed with pure water.23 Let us hold fast the profession of our
faith without wavering; (for he is faithful that promised;)KJV

God’s law which flowed down from heaven to man was to open up the
ability for God to tabernacle with man again. It was the first time the
human heart was bound by the word of God in us since the garden of
Eden. This shadow binding of the Adversarial heart was for over 1000
years till it met ist true substance at the cross. The Law was always meant
to be written on the heart symbolic of the spirit of that word living in and
reigning with us. When God’s word came down like rolling thunder of the
mountain which men could not with stand the glory and majesty of sins
reality was made known to man. Through the temple service of God, man
could come back from the dead and have his abode with God.
So, consider this next question in light of this…

Why did death stop reigning at Moses?
Rom 5:12-17
Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death
passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:13 (For until the law sin was in the world:
but sin is not imputed when there is no law.14 Nevertheless death
reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them
that had not sinned after the similitude of
Adam&#39;s transgression, who is the figure of him
that was to come.15 But not as the offence, so also is the free gift. For if
through the offence of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by
grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many.16 And not as it was
by one that sinned, so is the gift: for the judgment was by one to condemnation, but the
free gift is of many offences unto justification.17 For if by one man&#39;s offence
death reigned by one; much more they which receive abundance
of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign
in life by one, Jesus Christ.)KJV

24
QUESTION: Does the bible make a clear distinction between the natural
body and the spiritual body?

1 Cor 15:44
There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body. KJV

Can we be absent from one body and present in the Spiritual body and still
be alive and conscious?

2 Cor 12:2-6
I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, (whether in the body, I cannot tell;
or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) such an one caught up to the
third heaven.3 And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body, I
cannot tell: God knoweth;)4 How that he was caught up into paradise, and heard
unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter.5 Of such an one will I
glory: yet of myself I will not glory, but in mine infirmities.6 For though I would desire
to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I will say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man
should think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me. KJV

Now let’s consider this next verse.

2 Cor 5:4-10
For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened: not for that we would be
unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life.5 Now he that
hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who also hath given unto us the earnest of
the Spirit.6 Therefore we are always confident, knowing that, whilst we are at home in
the body, we are absent from the Lord:7 (For we walk by faith, not by sight:)8 We are
confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body, and
to be present with the Lord.9 Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or
absent, we may be accepted of him.
10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that every one may receive
the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad.

25

KJV
Is the following something we are still waiting for?
1 Cor 2:9
But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart
of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. KJV
Like some may say to be absent from the body is to be dead or asleep till
some future event such as the second coming, the same can be said about
the verse mentioned above.
But this verse when read in context also states it is a present tense reality
for those who have Spirit of God in them. Before we look at the above
verse at length let’s see where it was taken from and ask yourself if Isaiah
saw the fulfilment of this when His redeemer came the first time?

Was Isaiah waiting for the Messiah to save him which was fulfilled 2000
years ago or did have the second coming on his mind and this verse
bypasses the cross altogether?
Note :The idea expressed that death reigned from Adam till Moses and
how he longed for the very substance of God till fill all, that the shadows
had foretold .
We must also see how God uses language, because the mountains did not
literally flow down at Sinai.

Isa 64
Oh that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that thou wouldest come down, that the
mountains might flow down at thy presence,2 As when the melting fire burneth, the fire
causeth the waters to boil, to make thy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations
may tremble at thy presence!3 When thou didst terrible things which we looked not for,
thou camest down, the mountains flowed down at thy presence.4 For since the
beginning of the world men have not heard, nor perceived by the
ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God, beside thee, what he hath
prepared for him that waiteth for him.5 Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and
worketh righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways: behold, thou art wroth; for
we have sinned: in those is continuance, and we shall be saved.6 But we are all as an
unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a
leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away.7 And there is none that
calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee: for thou hast hid thy
face from us, and hast consumed us, because of our iniquities.8 But now, O Lord, thou art
our father; we are the clay, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy

26
hand.9 Be not wroth very sore, O Lord, neither remember iniquity for ever: behold,
see, we beseech thee, we are all thy people.10 Thy holy cities are a wilderness, Zion is a
wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.11 Our holy and our beautiful house, where our
fathers praised thee, is burned up with fire: and all our pleasant things are laid waste.12
Wilt thou refrain thyself for these things, O Lord? wilt thou hold thy peace, and afflict us
very sore?KJV
Paul definitely saw Isaiah 64 fulfilled as you can read…

1 Cor 2:4-16
And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man&#39;s wisdom, but in
demonstration of the Spirit and of power:5 That your faith should not stand in the
wisdom of men, but in the power of God.6 Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that
are perfect: yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come
to nought:7 But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom,
which God ordained before the world unto our glory:8 Which none of the princes of this
world knew: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.9
But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither
have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath
prepared for them that love him.10 But God hath revealed them
unto us by his Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the
deep things of God.11 For what man knoweth the things of a
man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of
God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God.12 Now we have
received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of
God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us
of God.13 Which things also we speak, not in the words which man&#39;s wisdom
teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with
spiritual.14 But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for
they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are
spiritually discerned.15 But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is
judged of no man.16 For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct
him? But we have the mind of Christ. KJV

27
The main point being made in the next verse is the education of those who
thought the sleeping saint was still in the ground after the resurrection of
the dead when the Graves were opened at Christs resurrection. The use of
the phrase “which are asleep” needs to be put into the context of the dead
in Christ rise first and the “ We” which includes Paul 2000 years ago, who
was still on earth will go later

1 Thess 4:13-18
But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are
asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope.14 For if we believe that
Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God
bring with him.15 For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which
are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are
asleep.16 For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice
of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first: 17
Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the
clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.18
Wherefore comfort one another with these words. KJV

1 Thess 4:15
shall in no wise precede them that are fallen asleep. ASV

QUESTION: Why do you think Some religious groups will not address
these texts but rather hammer out Old Testament passages of when the
patriarchs were asleep and then move that ideology into the New
Testaments which the next text states is to their shame.

28
QUESTIONS: Are those that are raised in glory and power and eternal
life portrayed in the bible as a future event when they wake from soul sleep
at the advent?
Or are those that are raised in power and glory those whom may still be
alive and walking the earth today who were crucified with Christ and have
died to self and were raised with him and are new creations in Christ?
1 Cor 15:34-58
Awake to righteousness, and sin not; for some have not the knowledge of God: I speak
this to your shame.35 But some man will say, How are the dead raised up? and
with what body do they come?36 Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not
quickened, except it die:37 And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that
shall be, but bare grain, it may chance of wheat, or of some other grain:
38 But God giveth it a body as it hath pleased him, and to every seed his own body.
39 All flesh is not the same flesh: but there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of
beasts, another of fishes, and another of birds.40 There are also celestial bodies, and
bodies terrestrial: but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is
another.41 There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another
glory of the stars: for one star differeth from another star in glory.42 So also is the
resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in
incorruption:43 It is sown in dishonour; it is raised in glory: it is sown in
weakness; it is raised in power:44 It is sown a natural body; it is raised a
spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there is a
spiritual body.45 And so it is written, The first man Adam was made a living
soul; the last Adam was made a quickening spirit.46 Howbeit that was not first
which is spiritual, but that which is natural; and afterward that which is spiritual.

Rom 6:1-11
What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?2 God forbid.
How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?3 Know ye not, that so many
of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?4 Therefore we are
buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up
from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should

29
walk in newness of life.5 For if we have been planted together in the likeness of
his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:6
Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be
destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.7 For he that is dead is freed from
sin.8 Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:9
Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead
dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over
him.10 For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto
God.11 Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead
indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus
Christ our Lord. KJV

QUESTION: Is it the spiritual body which is in Gods image not the vessel
of Clay made of the earth, which only holds the treasure the Eternal Spirit
of God.
What do the following bible verses reveal?

Gen 1:26-27 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let
them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the
cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the
earth.27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male
and female created he them. KJV

1 Corinthians 15, 47-57
The first man is of the earth, earthy: the second man is the Lord from heaven.
48 As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy: and as is the heavenly, such are
they also that are heavenly.49 And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall
also bear the image of the heavenly.50 Now this I say, brethren, that flesh
and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit
incorruption.51 Behold, I shew you a mystery; We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be
changed,52 In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet

30
shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we
shall be changed.53 For this corruptible must put on
incorruption, and this mortal must put on
immortality.54 So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this
mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is
written, Death is swallowed up in victory.55 O death, where is thy sting? O
grave, where is thy victory?56 The sting of death is sin; and the strength of sin is the
law.57 But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus
Christ.

QUESTIONS FOR CONSIDERATION
When are, the dead raised incorruptible?
When does, the bible say we die?
When do we receive the spiritual body?
Are all these questions to be answered at a future event or time such as the
second coming?
May we well ask what did Christ achieve on the cross that needs the
second coming to make it real?
How are we to understand the next verse in Isaiah if soul sleep is true?.

Isa 26:19
Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and
sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out
the dead. KJV

Question: Is the soul sleep doctrine biblical?
Does the Investigative Judgment doctrine rob Christ of the judgment
poured on Him as our redeemer?

31
Was the judgment of this world 2000 years ago in Christ when Christ “the
word”, the sword, cut off “Satan’s power” over this world and bound the
adversary.

When does the bible say the day of Judgment is?
John 12:28-32
Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both
glorified it, and will glorify it again. 29 The people therefore, that stood by, and heard it,
said that it thundered: others said, An angel spake to him.30 Jesus answered and said,
This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes.31 Now is the
judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast
out.32 And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. KJV

QUESTION: Are were judged in Christ and condemned to eternal death
by the law but having been sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise we have
eternal life now.
Is it true that Christ gave His life for us, so he Could give His life to us.
Is this life in God the very image that died in Adan in the garden?

Rom 5:10-12
For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much
more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life.11 And not only so, but we also joy
in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the
atonement.12 Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin;
and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned: KJV

QUESTION: When does the bible say we die, is it when the “Ruach” the
breath leaves the body?

Rom 6:3-12

32
Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into
his death?4 Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death:
that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also
should walk in newness of life.5 For if we have been planted together in the likeness
of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:6 Knowing this, that
our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be
destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.7 For he that is dead is freed
from sin.8 Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:9
Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more
dominion over him.10 For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he
liveth unto God.11 Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead
indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our
Lord.12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the
lusts thereof. KJV

QUESTION: If our first death is in Christ after which we are given His
Spirit in the power of the resurrection Is that Gift of himself what we call
eternal life.
Consequently, does the second death which is when the breath leaves the
body have absolutely no power over us.

Gal 2:19-3:3
For I through the law am dead to the law, that I might live unto God.20 I am
crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me:
and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved
me, and gave himself for me.21 I do not frustrate the grace of God: for if righteousness
come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain.3 O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched
you, that ye should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently
set forth, crucified among you?2 This only would I learn of you, Received ye the Spirit
by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?3 Are ye so foolish? having begun
in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect by the flesh? KJV

33
QUESTION: Why is the doctrine that individual through the Re-born
Eternal Spirit of God are quickened at death, not preached in some
churches?
Is it because it destroys a pre-Advent judgment?
Has this eroded people’s confidence in salvation by hiding this away and
refusing to preach it?
Can bible verses like the next one take on a new depth of meaning to
someone who sees how the Spirit of God in us is life eternal.

John 6:61-64
When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth
this offend you? 62 What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was
before? 63 It is the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth
nothing: the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are
life.64 But there are some of you that believe not. KJV

QUESTION: Because Christ trod the wine press alone is He alone fit to
Judge who is in Him or Not?

John 5:21-22
For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them; even so the Son
quickeneth whom he will.22 For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all
judgment unto the Son: KJV

Isa 63:3-6
I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the people there was none with me: for I will
tread them in mine anger, and trample them in my fury; and their blood shall be
sprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment.4 For the day of
vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is come. 5
And I looked, and there was none to help; and I wondered that there was none to

34
uphold: therefore mine own arm brought salvation unto me; and my fury, it upheld me. 6
And I will tread down the people in mine anger, and make them drunk in my fury, and I
will bring down their strength to the earth. KJV

The year of the redeemed has indeed come as you read this verse let it sink
deep into the heart.

Rom 8:9-15
But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you.
Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his.10 And if Christ be in you,
the body is dead because of sin; but the Spirit is life because of righteousness.11 But if
the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in
you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also
quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in
you.12 Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh.13 For
if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die: but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the
deeds of the body, ye shall live.14 For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they
are the sons of God.15 For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear; but
ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.KJV

QUESTION: What is the reason we have peace, is it that we have already
been judged and cannot enter into judgment again because we have been
crucified with Christ and have appeared already before His Judgement
seat?
Was the great day of Atonement on Calvary when His Blood spilled paving
the way into the Holiest of all back into the Fathers arms?

Isa 53:4-8
Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken,
smitten of God, and afflicted.5 But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was

35
bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his
stripes we are healed.6 All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to
his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.
7 He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a
lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his
mouth.8 He was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declare his
generation? for he was cut off out of the land of the living: for the transgression of
my people was he stricken. KJV

QUESTION: Is It Christ living in us which is life eternal and the Cross
only paved the way

Rom 5:10-11
For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much
more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life.11 And not only so, but we also joy
in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the
atonement.KJV

Rom 8:11
But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that
raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by
his Spirit that dwelleth in you. KJV

The way has been laid open Peace has been made.
QUESTION: Is the erroneous idea that way is not yet laid open for eternal
life in the presence of God until Christ’s return, met with strong scriptural
opposition.

John 5:24-30
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent
me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed

36
from death unto life.25 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and
now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and
they that hear shall live. 26 For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he
given to the Son to have life in himself; 27 And hath given him authority to execute
judgment also, because he is the Son of man. 28 Marvel not at this: for the hour is
coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, 29 And shall come
forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and
they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation.30 I can of mine own self do
nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will,
but the will of the Father which hath sent me. KJV

QUESTION: Is it wonderful that the spiritual understanding that we were
crucified in Christ, was for the old testament faithful a future promise. It
is as if time meets at this central moment of the new creation in Christ. Is
it also wonderful that as the Old Testament faithful were released from the
prison of death and we can know that we to are raised with them in the
spiritual realm. They went to heaven as first fruits and we who remain will
go up and meet the Lord in the air.

Matt 27:51-53
And, behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom; and the
earth did quake, and the rocks rent; 52 And the graves were opened; and many
bodies of the saints which slept arose,53 And came out of the graves
after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many. KJV

QUESTION: What is important about the use of Past tenths in relation to
those that were asleep in this next verse and how does this encapsulate all
the precepts outlined so far in this study.
1 Cor 15:20-25

37
20 But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the firstfruits of them that
slept.21 For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead.
22 For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.
23 But every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward they that are
Christ&#39;s at his coming.24 Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered
up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all
authority and power.25 For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. KJV

QUESTION: What if all the texts so far could be twisted to be still seen
through soul sleep eyes and that when we are no longer alive in the body
we are asleep dead not know anything?
Would we have no other conclusion then to choose between the churches
teachings and the word of God which states… 2 Cor 5:6-8
So we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body we are
absent from the Lord. 7 For we walk by faith, not by sight. 8 We are confident, yes,
well pleased rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the
Lord.
NKJV

QUESTION What are the mansions in the Fathers house?
Where is Christ residing in the text and thus where are we to be also and
when?

John 14:2-11
In my Father&#39;s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go
to prepare a place for you.3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come
again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.4 And
whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.5 Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not
whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?6 Jesus saith unto him, I am the
way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.7 If ye had known

38
me, ye should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have
seen him.
8 Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us.9 Jesus saith unto
him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that
hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?
10 Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak
unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works.
11 Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the
very works&#39; sake. KJV

Spiritually the first death and first resurrection of the dead happens at
conversion and this is explained in the next text which is often overlooked.
Just as the first fruits were raised with Him we are also seen to be part of
that first resurrection of the dead over which the second death has no
power having already died with Christ to sin

QUESTIONS: Have you seen this wonderful biblical truth twisted by some
theologians deliberately and fed to the flock that are ignorant of the great
volume of texts which speak contrary to the soul sleep position.

Do verses like this next one which may have once seemed a bit hollow in
understanding now resonated with great depth and wisdom?

Eph 2:4-9
But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us,5 Even when we
were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;) 6
And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in
heavenly places in Christ Jesus:7 That in the ages to come he might shew the
exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus.8 For by

39
grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God:9 Not of
works, lest any man should boast. KJV

The Soul sleep doctrine cannot answer the biblical precept that for the
Christian in Christ, death and resurrection has already occurred. The
reality is that when the body ceases breathing that which is in the body
which is not of this world continues to tabernacle in God and is received
into the kingdom which is also not of this creation that we may be with the
lord always . that where he is we may be also.
Consider the melody of biblical precepts outlined below?
1 Thess 4:16-18
And the dead in Christ will rise first. 17 Then we who are alive and remain
shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus
we shall always be with the Lord. 18 Therefore comfort one another with these words.
NKJV

John 14:3
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself;
that where I am, there ye may be also. KJV

Matt 25:13-21

13 &#39;Watch therefore, for ye have not known the day nor the hour in which the Son of
Man doth come.14 &#39;For — as a man going abroad did call his own servants, and did
deliver to them his substance,15 and to one he gave five talents, and to another two, and
to another one, to each according to his several ability, went abroad immediately.16 &#39;And
he who did receive the five talents, having gone, wrought with them, and made other five
talents;17 in like manner also he who [received] the two, he gained, also he, other two;18
and he who did receive the one, having gone away, digged in the earth, and hid his lord&#39;s
money.19 &#39;And after a long time cometh the lord of those servants, and taketh reckoning
with them;20 and he who did receive the five talents having come, brought other five
talents, saying, &#39;Sir, five talents thou didst deliver to me; lo, other five talents did I gain

40
besides them.21 &#39;And his lord said to him, Well done, servant, good and
faithful, over a few things thou wast faithful, over many things I
will set thee; enter into the joy of thy lord.YLT

As you can see the real question is no what is the state of the dead but
rather, what is the habitation of the state of the living. The dead are dead
they are what they are and that includes if they are breathing or not.
Anyone who is not tabernacling with God is dead ,it is that simple.

Matt 8:21-22

21 And another of his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my
father.22 But Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the dead bury their dead
.KJV

Matt 23:27
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are like unto whited sepulchres,
which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men&#39;s
bones, and of all uncleanness. KJV

Col 2:12-17
Buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him through the
faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead.13
And you, being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh, hath he
quickened together with him, having forgiven you all
trespasses;14 Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which
was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross;15 And having
spoiled principalities and powers, he made a shew of them openly, triumphing over
them in it.16 Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in respect of an
holyday, or of the new moon, or of the sabbath days:17 Which are a shadow of
things to come; but the body is of Christ. KJV

41

Let’s allow scripture to give us greater understanding.
In the following text note the correlation to the death experienced in the
Garden when “the tent of this body” is explained as not being the image
we were made in. Adam died in the Garden the day he ate of the fruit not
when he ceased breathing. This we have already looked at but now we see
how this precept is interlinked to the judgment at the end of the world. The
timeframe this is recorded in the bible may well surprise you.

2 Cor 5:1-10
For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a
building of God, an house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
2 For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is
from heaven:3 If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked. ( like Adam and
Eve)4 For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened: not for that we would
be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life.
5 Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who also hath given unto us
the earnest of the Spirit.6 Therefore we are always confident, knowing that, whilst we
are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord:7 (For we walk by faith, not
by sight:) 8 We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body, and to
be present with the Lord. 9 Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or absent, we may
be accepted of him.
10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that every one may receive
the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad.
KJV

QUESTIONS: Is the Judgment seat of Christ, for those in Christ at the
cross?
When we die, does the bible says there is the Judgment but for the one in
Christ is it defined by scripture that it happened 2000 years ago?

42
When is the Judgment for the one not in Christ is at physical death and
because their judgment is also at the cross for Christ died for all yet
because they had not excepted the resurrected life of Christ to reign in
their bodies, they are now twice dead.

Heb 9:26-28
For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world: but now
once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice
of himself.27 And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after
this the judgment:28 So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto
them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation. KJV

QUESTION: Why Is the second presence of Christ apart from sin?
Does the cross reconcile us through his dealing with sin, but to come
apart from sin is this biblically defined as the infilling of the Spirit of
God?
What is this covenant relationship when God remembers sin no more?
How does this correlate with the fact he is with us always?
How does this effect our relationship to sin in the flesh?

Rom 5:10
For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much
more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. KJV
He gave us His spirit a treasure in this body of clay

Eph 4:6-10
One God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all.
7 But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ.8
Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and
gave gifts unto men. 9 (Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also

43
descended first into the lower parts of the earth?10 He that descended is the same also
that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all things.) KJV

2 Cor 4:3-7
But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost:4 In whom the god of this world
hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious
gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto
them.5 For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord; and ourselves your
servants for Jesus&#39; sake.6 For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness,
hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in
the face of Jesus Christ.7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels,
that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us.
KJV

QUESTION; Did Christ open the door to death and set the captives free
who were held by its bondage?

1 Peter 3:18-19
For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us
to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit:
19 By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison; KJV

Note: The resurrection of the dead and judgment upon the lost is at the
same time.

Isa 26:19-21
Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they
arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and
the earth shall cast out the dead.20 Come, my people, enter thou into thy
chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until
the indignation be overpast.21 For, behold, the Lord cometh out of his place to punish the

44
inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall
no more cover her slain. KJV

QUESTIONS: Do the redeemed of the lord come into Zion the heavenly
Jerusalem at the resurrection of Christ?
Is this where the saints went that were raised in the first resurrection when
the graves were opened and the dead rose with Christ?

Isa 52:1-3
Awake, awake; put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful
garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for henceforth there shall no more come into
thee the uncircumcised and the unclean.2 Shake thyself from the dust; arise, and sit
down, O Jerusalem: loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of
Zion.3 For thus saith the Lord, Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall be
redeemed without money.KJV

QUESTION: Did Christ did die spiritually on the cross considering the
temple was only a house for the spirit and his temple was his body?
Did His spirit returned back to the Father as He asked with His last
breath? As He stated…

John 2:19-21
Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it
up.20 Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt thou
rear it up in three days?21 But he spake of the temple of his body.KJV

Luke 23:45
And when Jesus had cried out with a loud voice, He said, &quot;Father, &#39;into Your hands
I commit My spirit.&#39;&quot; Having said this, He breathed His last. NKJV

45
In relation to the soul sleep position with the thief on the cross and the
question as to where we put the comma is irrelevant in light of the petition
the thief asked “when He comes into His kingdom that Christ will
remember him.
Here the comma does not matter for of the massive amount of scripture
that tell us the Kingdom was manifest at the resurrection and that He
reigns now. The argument that Christ had not yet ascended to the Father
to activate the sanctuary is ludicrous for the Father Had raised Christ
.This errant belief is also based on the idea that Christ died spiritually (
which means he would need a saviour for sin) and the Father did not
receive His Spirit at death which the bible does not allow for these twisted
interpretations.
QUESTIONS: What beautiful gift did the thief give to Christ?
How do you think that the thief knew the kingdom was about to be
established?
Why was the thief saved what had happened for him?
Where were you when he asked that question?
Must we also like the thief be crucified with Christ and see our King
enthroned and ready to inherit all things and bring us into eternity?
Does the comma not matter anymore?
.

Luke 23:42-46
And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.
43 And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt thou be with me in
paradise.44 And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth
until the ninth hour.45 And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in
the midst.46 And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy
hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the ghost.KJV

46
The following psalm is a messianic psalm about the resurrection and
release of those imprisoned by death whom were resurrected with Christ
and taken to the Jerusalem Mount Zion in heaven, where the redeemed
now live.

In this text, we have the release of those held by death .
We have the earthquake at the resurrection likened to mount Sinai
We have the latter rain which was Pentecost being the witness of man’s
admittance into the holiest of all as the release of the prisoners from
captivity led by his resurrection into the heavenly Jerusalem..

Ps 68:1-19
Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him.
2 As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melteth before the fire, so let the
wicked perish at the presence of God.3 But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice
before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.4 Sing unto God, sing praises to his name:
extol him that rideth upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him.5 A
father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation.6 God
setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which are bound with
chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.7 O God, when thou wentest forth before
thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah:8 The earth
shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: even
Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.9 Thou, O God, didst
send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was
weary.10 Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared of thy
goodness for the poor.
11 The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that published it.
12 Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil.
13 Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove covered
with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.
14 When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in Salmon.

47

15 The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the hill of Bashan.
16 Why leap ye, ye high hills? this is the hill which God desireth to dwell in; yea, the
Lord will dwell in it for ever.
17 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels: the Lord is among
them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.
18 Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou
hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that the Lord
God might dwell among them.
19 Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our
salvation. Selah. KJV

This allegorical view is in harmony with scripture and instead of just
picking out the bits we know are messianic prophecies we can now see that
the whole text in context and not just our chosen pieces speak consistently
of the same theme. Paul describes this principle as follows..

Gal 4:22-26
For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a
freewoman.23 But he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh; but he of the
freewoman was by promise.24 Which things are an allegory: for these are the two
covenants; the one from the mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, which is Agar.
25 For this Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to Jerusalem which now is,
and is in bondage with her children. 26 But Jerusalem which is above is free, which
is the mother of us all. KJV

QUESTION; in the following text does Jesus endorses Martha’s theology
or does he correct it?
First let’s see about the end of the world as viewed in context of these
texts.
Heb 9:26-28

48
For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once
in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
27 And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment:28 So Christ
was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he
appear the second time without sin unto salvation. KJV

Heb 1:1-2
God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by
the prophets,2 Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath
appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds; KJV

Now bare these verses in mind as you ponder Martha’s theology and
Christ’s response.

John 11:1-26
Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus, of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister
Martha.2 (It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet
with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.)3 Therefore his sisters sent unto him,
saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.4 When Jesus heard that, he said, This
sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be
glorified thereby.5 Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. 6 When he had
heard therefore that he was sick, he abode two days still in the same place where he was.7
Then after that saith he to his disciples, Let us go into Judaea again.8 His disciples say
unto him, Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee; and goest thou thither again?9
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any man walk in the day, he
stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world.10 But if a man walk in the night,
he stumbleth, because there is no light in him.
11 These things said he: and after that he saith unto them, Our friend Lazarus sleepeth;
but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep.12 Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep,
he shall do well.13 Howbeit Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that he had spoken
of taking of rest in sleep.14 Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead.
15 And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe;
nevertheless let us go unto him. 16 Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his

49
fellowdisciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him. 17 Then when Jesus came, he
found that he had lain in the grave four days already. 18 Now Bethany was nigh unto
Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off:19 And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary,
to comfort them concerning their brother. 20 Then Martha, as soon as she heard that
Jesus was coming, went and met him: but Mary sat still in the house. 21 Then said
Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
22 But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee.
23 Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.24 Martha saith unto him, I know
that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day.
25 Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he
that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he
live: 26 And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.
Believest thou this? KJV

QUESTION: Have you ever considered if Lazarus was not raised then He
would have been raised with Christ at the first resurrection when the
graves were opened.
Does this explain why Jesus was so at peace with it all whilst others saw
His actions as uncaring prompting some to say “see” when He wept “He
did love him”.
Would of Lazarus like others before him been waiting for the victory over
death manifest at Christ’s resurrection when those that slept in the dust
awakened.
Does this also explain why they did not understand the resurrection and
why Jesus said what He did? This was prophesied in part in Isaiah.

Isa 26:15-27:1
Thou hast increased the nation, O Lord, thou hast increased the nation: thou art glorified:
thou hadst removed it far unto all the ends of the earth.
16 Lord, in trouble have they visited thee, they poured out a prayer when thy chastening
was upon them.17 Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery,

50
is in pain, and crieth out in her pangs; so have we been in thy sight, O Lord.18 We have
been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we
have not wrought any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world
fallen. 19 Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they
arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as the dew of herbs,
and the earth shall cast out the dead.20 Come, my people, enter thou into thy
chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself as it were for a
little moment, until the indignation be overpast.21 For, behold, the Lord
cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth
also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.27 In that day the
Lord with his sore and great and strong sword shall punish leviathan the piercing serpent,
even leviathan that crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea. KJV

Notice the close correlations between this verse just mentioned in Isaiah
and Revelation 6:9-11

QUESTION: What are souls under the altar in heaven doing asking God
when he is going to Judge the world? How did they get there where are
their bodies?

Rev 6:9-11
And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that
were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they held:

10 And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost
thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the
earth?b11 And white robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said
unto them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their
fellowservants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they were, should be
fulfilled. KJV

51

Could there be souls in heaven?

In the next verse, we have the distinction between the 144.000 of Israel
and new covenant nations before the throne of God. The scene is set in the
temple. Having been redeemed by their faith in the sacrificial temple
Covenant they know not the Cross.

QUESTION: If you believe in soul sleep how complicated does this verse
seem?

Rev 7:8-17

8 Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed
twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed twelve thousand.
9 After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man could number, of all
nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the
Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands;
10 And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the
throne, and unto the Lamb.
11 And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the
elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God,
12 Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and
power, and might, be unto our God for ever and ever. Amen.
13 And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which
are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?
14 And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they which came
out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the
blood of the Lamb.
15 Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his
temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them.
16 They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them,
nor any heat.17 For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and

52
shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from
their eyes. KJV

Now consider these next texts to meditate upon in light of the previous
one.

Gen 4:10
And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother&#39;s blood crieth unto
me from the ground. KJV

This text shows the contrast between those who perish and those who have
hope.
Let’s now examine some of the favorited soul sleep doctrine texts and see
how they sit in comparison with what has been outlined in the precepts of
this bible study so far?
Ps 146
Praise ye the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul.2 While I live will I praise the Lord: I will
sing praises unto my God while I have any being.3 Put not your trust in princes, nor in
the son of man, in whom there is no help.4 His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his
earth; in that very day his thoughts perish.5 Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for
his help, whose hope is in the Lord his God:
6 Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth truth for
ever:7 Which executeth judgment for the oppressed: which giveth food to the hungry.
The Lord looseth the prisoners:8 The Lord openeth the eyes of the blind: the Lord
raiseth them that are bowed down: the Lord loveth the righteous:9 The Lord
preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless and widow: but the way of the
wicked he turneth upside down.10 The Lord shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion,
unto all generations. Praise ye the Lord.KJV

It is important to note that NEARLY ALL THE TEXTS are old testament
texts where the dead are asleep in Christ yet these are called dead and

53
those that are made alive through His resurrection are then in soul sleep
theology called asleep and their awakening is not until the second coming.
There are those declared dead either side of the cross because they reject
God but those prior to the cross who are saved are asleep. As for those
that fall asleep after the resurrection the sleep refers only to the Body as
the Spirit returns to God through the Quickening.

Eccl 9:2-6
All things come alike to all: there is one event to the righteous, and to the wicked; to the
good and to the clean, and to the unclean; to him that sacrificeth, and to him that
sacrificeth not: as is the good, so is the sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that feareth an
oath.3 This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun, that there is one event
unto all: yea, also the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart
while they live, and after that they go to the dead.4 For to him that is joined to all the
living there is hope: for a living dog is better than a dead lion.5 For the living know that
they shall die: but the dead know not any thing, neither have they any more a
reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.6 Also their love, and their hatred, and
their envy, is now perished; neither have they any more a portion for ever in any thing
that is done under the sun. KJV

NOTE In soul sleep advocates Verse 12 above is the only verse often
quoted…when we read the whole we see a longing expressed for salvation
a distinction between the just and the unjust at death. How sad is it to
preach this apathetic situation in the light of the glorious resurrection of
Christ?
Notice that Job waited for this change.
Job 14:12-17
So man lieth down, and riseth not: till the heavens be no more, they shall not
awake, nor be raised out of their sleep.

13 O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest keep me secret,
until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and

54
remember me!14 If a man die, shall he live again? all the
days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change
come.15 Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire to the work of
thine hands.16 For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my sin?
17 My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up mine iniquity. KJV

There is a verse in the New testament that is used by soul sleep promoters
but we first will put on our wide angle lens and see the whole of this verse
and there will be no cherry picking snapshots taken in answering this
question.
The next verse is addressing Zionism… that the throne of David was
spiritually is in Heaven and that Christ sits on this throne in heaven and
the distinction between Jerusalem and the heavenly abode is the
distinction being made not the state of the dead. The Soul sleep theologian
uses this text to say that David is not in Heaven because it is a New
testament text, but the text is not saying that…. but rather King David that
sat in Jerusalem did not sit in heavenly reign. David’s son’s kingdom was
to be everlasting but Solomon’s wasn’t as the son of David was always
Christ in that prophecy. This is the point being expressed.
Acts 2:24-36
Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it was not
possible that he should be holden of it.25 For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw
the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved:
26 Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad; moreover also my flesh shall
rest in hope:
27 Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy
One to see corruption.28 Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou
shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance.
29 Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch
David, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with
us unto this day.

55
30 Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him,
that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ
to sit on his throne;
31 He seeing this before spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his
soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption.
32 This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses.
33 Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father
the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed forth this, which ye now see and hear.
34 For David is not ascended into the heavens: but he saith himself, The Lord
said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand,
35 Until I make thy foes thy footstool.
36 Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God hath made that same
Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ.KJV

QUESTION: Did David hope in the resurrection of the messiah when He
would be made alive. When we read this next psalm, David saw himself
tied to the salvation that the messiah would establish when he destroyed
death.

Ps 16
Preserve me, O God: for in thee do I put my trust.
2 O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my Lord: my goodness extendeth not
to thee;3 But to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, in whom is all my
delight.4 Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another god: their drink
offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names into my lips.
5 The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou maintainest my lot.
6 The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage.
7 I will bless the Lord, who hath given me counsel: my reins also instruct me in the night
seasons.8 I have set the Lord always before me: because he is at my right hand, I shall not
be moved.9 Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also shall rest in
hope.10 For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy

56
One to see corruption.11 Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is
fulness of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.KJV

Mark 12:18-27
then come unto him the Sadducees, which say there is no resurrection; and they asked
him, saying,19 Master, Moses wrote unto us, If a man&#39;s brother die, and leave his wife
behind him, and leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed
unto his brother.20 Now there were seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and dying
left no seed.
21 And the second took her, and died, neither left he any seed: and the third likewise.
22 And the seven had her, and left no seed: last of all the woman died also.
23 In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose wife shall she be of them?
for the seven had her to wife.
24 And Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err, because ye know not the
scriptures, neither the power of God?25 For when they shall rise from the
dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage; but are as
the angels which are in heaven.
26 And as touching the dead, that they rise: have ye not read in
the book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying, I
am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of
Jacob?
27 He is not the God of the dead, but the God of
the living: ye therefore do greatly err.KJV

If we are to believe that Christ taught that the dead are asleep and that
these sayings are synonymous then how are we to understand that “eternal
life” is paused at death which separates us from God through “sleep”
which is interchangeable with the word death..

John 3:36

57
He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that believeth not the Son
shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him.KJV

As difficult as it is for these texts to be reconciled how can this text be
understood with in the soul sleep doctrine. When “the hour” was Now in
Christs Time ?

John 5:24-25
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent
me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed
from death unto life.25 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now
is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear
shall live.KJV

Note: this next text does not say will have eternal life but rather present
tenths …. we already have eternal life.

QUESTIONS: If we have not passed from Death (sleep) into life at death
and we are still in death (sleep) then is it impossible to have entered into
eternal life?
Does that render useless the regeneration of His Spirit via the Atonement?

If this is true do these verses make no sense…

John 6:47-58
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life.
48 I am that bread of life.49 Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead.
50 This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and
not die.51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man eat of
this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give is my

58
flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.52 The Jews therefore strove
among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat?53 Then Jesus said
unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the
Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you.54
Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal
life; and I will raise him up at the last day.55 For my flesh is meat
indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.56 He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood,
dwelleth in me, and I in him.57 As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the
Father: so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me.58 This is that bread which came
down from heaven: not as your fathers did eat manna, and are dead: he that eateth of
this bread shall live for ever.KJV

The next verse in soul sleep believers minds means Marvel not, my brethren, if
the world hate you. 14 We know that we have passed from “sleep” unto life,
because we love the brethren. But that life only exists until death when we pass
back into sleep again because were are not raised in Christ because He did
not make atonement 2000 years ago but began that in 1844..this is an
absurd position .
Thanks, be to God that His word reads as follows…
1 John 3:13-15
Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. 14 We know that we have passed
from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother
abideth in death.15 Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no
murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.KJV

Note: in the next passage The King James Version has the word
“world” where there is the word eternity in most other translation.

Eccl 3:9-11

59
What profit has the worker from that in which he labors? 10 I have seen the God-given
task with which the sons of men are to be occupied. 11 He has made everything beautiful
in its time. Also He has put eternity in their hearts, except that no one can find out
the work that God does from beginning to end. NKJV

2 Cor 4:6-7
For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in
our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus
Christ. 7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power
may be of God, and not of us. KJV

Because of Corrupt theology our Spiritual GPS is way off course in
understanding biblical Chronology.
We know that the next verse is fulfilled when the Temple descends upon
the new earth’
QUESTION: has every promise already been made manifest.

Rev 21:2-5
And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven,
prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.3 And I heard a great voice out of heaven
saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and
they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God. (1 Cor
3:16-17 Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God
dwelleth in you?17 If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy;
for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are. KJV)
4 And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more
death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former
things are passed away. (Matt 27:52-53 And the graves were opened; and
many bodies of the saints which slept arose,53 And came out of the graves
after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many.)KJV
5 And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said
unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful. (2 Cor 5:17 Therefore if any man be in

60

Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away; behold, all things are
become new.)

This has already happened spiritually. Amen!

In the absence of not knowing the Kingdom of God was set up at the cross
and what actually happens at Christ manifestation or revelation in us and
when and where the reign of Christ on the throne of David began be that
at the ascension we are left to reflect upon these following points.
There are 10 key areas of soul sleep theology and hermeneutical
manipulation which need to be addressed in order to detoxify of the
erroneous doctrine of Soul Sleep.

1. When did Adam Die?
2. When was Atonement made?
3. When was the world judged?
4. When was Satan Bound?
5. When did the millennial reign begin and is it literal?
6. What happens at the second coming?
7. What happens at conversion the spiritual rebirth?
8. What happens when we die?
9. When does eternal life begin?
10. When were we raised from the dead

I ask that you look for the answers to these questions form the bible only
and by applying precepts discover the truth in God’s word.

61

End notes and thoughts..

Rev 20:1-9
And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a
great chain in his hand.2 And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the
Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years,3 And cast him into the bottomless pit,
and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till
the thousand years should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.4
And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them: and I
saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the
word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast,
(These souls are described as asking God as to when He will come to take vengeance at
the second coming? Which in itself challenges the soul sleep subversion)

neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands;
and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
5 But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is
the first resurrection.

(Note the rest of the dead are not those already depicted as reigning with Christ for those reigning with
Christ are of the first resurrection by common sense logic.)

6 Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection: on such the second death
hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with
him a thousand years.

62
(How can Satan deceive nations if they have been already consumed by the
brightness of Christ coming? And the bible does not speak of a third
coming)

7 And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison,
8 And shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog
and Magog, to gather them together to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the
sea.
9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the camp of the saints
about, and the beloved city: and fire came down from God out of heaven, and devoured
them.
KJV

Meaning of the word Quickeneth…
Strong&#39;s #2227: zoopoieo (pronounced dzo-op-oy-eh&#39;-o)
from the same as 2226 and 4160; to (re-)vitalize (literally or figuratively):--make
alive, give life, quicken.
Thayer&#39;s Greek Lexicon:́
zōopoieō
1) to produce alive, begat or bear living young
2) to cause to live, make alive, give life
2a) by spiritual power to arouse and invigorate
2b) to restore to life
2c) to give increase of life: thus of physical life
2d) of the spirit, quickening as respects the spirit, endued with new and greater
powers of life
3) metaphorically, of seeds quickened into life, i.e. germinating, springing up,
growing

63

Part of Speech: verb
Relation: from the same as G2226 and G4160
Citing in TDNT: 2:874, 290
Usage:
This word is used 12 times: 
John 5:21: &quot;the dead, and quickeneth them; even so the Son&quot;
John 5:21: &quot;the Son quickeneth whom he will.&quot;
John 6:63: &quot;It is the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth&quot;
Romans 4:17: &quot;him whom he believed, even God, who quickeneth the dead,
and calleth&quot;
Romans 8:11: &quot;from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by&quot;
1 Corinthians 15:22: &quot;in Christ shall all be made alive.&quot;
1 Corinthians 15:36: &quot;thou sowest is not quickened, except it die:&quot;
1 Corinthians 15:45: &quot;last Adam was made a quickening spirit.&quot;
2 Corinthians 3:6: &quot;killeth, but the spirit giveth life.&quot;
Galatians 3:21: &quot;if there had been a law given which could have given life,
verily righteousness&quot;
1 Timothy 6:13: &quot;I give thee charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all
things, and before Christ&quot;
1 Peter 3:18: &quot;in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit:&quot;

Joseph’s trouble

Who remembers well the story of Joseph’s ordeal into Egypt?
Allocate people to profile
Ruben..Judah..Joseph…Jacob…..Potiphar and his wife…pharaoh
and Benjamin.
What lessons do they learn about themselves?
What is the most important lesson Joseph learnt that we to need to
learn?
Even tho evil was orchestrated and many were hurt …according to
Joseph who was sovereign over it?
It is important to realise whilst profiling each character that not all the “good
guys” like Jacob.. are as good as we think and not all the bad guys like Judah
….are as bad as we have been thinking.
Try putting yourself in their shoes and see how it fly’s.
Gen 37
And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of
Canaan.2 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years
old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah,
and with the sons of Zilpah, his father&#39;s wives: and Joseph brought unto his father
their evil report.3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because
he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours.4 And
when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren,
they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him.5 And Joseph dreamed a
dream, and he told it his brethren: and they hated him yet the more.6 And he said
unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed:7 For, behold, we
were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright;
and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my
sheaf.8 And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt
thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his
dreams, and for his words.9 And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his
brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the
sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.
10 And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and his father rebuked him, and
said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother
and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?11 And

his brethren envied him; but his father observed the saying.12 And his brethren went
to feed their father&#39;s flock in Shechem.13 And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy
brethren feed the flock in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he
said to him, Here am I.14 And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well
with thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he sent him
out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.15 And a certain man found
him, and, behold, he was wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying,
What seekest thou?16 And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where
they feed their flocks.17 And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard
them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them
in Dothan.18 And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them,
they conspired against him to slay him.19 And they said one to another, Behold, this
dreamer cometh.20 Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into
some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall see
what will become of his dreams.21 And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of
their hands; and said, Let us not kill him.22 And Reuben said unto them, Shed no
blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him;
that he might rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again.23 And it
came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stript Joseph out
of his coat, his coat of many colours that was on him;24 And they took him, and cast
him into a pit: and the pit was empty, there was no water in it.25 And they sat down
to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and, behold, a company of
Ishmeelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh,
going to carry it down to Egypt.26 And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it
if we slay our brother, and conceal his blood?27 Come, and let us sell him to the
Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother and our flesh.
And his brethren were content.
28 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and lifted up
Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty pieces of silver:
and they brought Joseph into Egypt.29 And Reuben returned unto the pit; and,
behold, Joseph was not in the pit; and he rent his clothes.30 And he returned unto
his brethren, and said, The child is not; and I, whither shall I go?31 And they took
Joseph&#39;s coat, and killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood;32 And
they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their father; and said, This
have we found: know now whether it be thy son&#39;s coat or no.
33 And he knew it, and said, It is my son&#39;s coat; an evil beast hath devoured him;
Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.34 And Jacob rent his clothes, and put
sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days.35 And all his sons
and all his daughters rose up to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted; and he
said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept
for him.

36 And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of
Pharaoh&#39;s, and captain of the guard.KJV

Gen 39
And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain
of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had
brought him down thither.2 And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous
man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.3 And his master saw that
the Lord was with him, and that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand.4
And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer
over his house, and all that he had he put into his hand.5 And it came to pass from
the time that he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that
the Lord blessed the Egyptian&#39;s house for Joseph&#39;s sake; and the blessing of the
Lord was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.6 And he left all that he
had in Joseph&#39;s hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did
eat. And Joseph was a goodly person, and well favoured.7 And it came to pass after
these things, that his master&#39;s wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie
with me.8 But he refused, and said unto his master&#39;s wife, Behold, my master
wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to
my hand;9 There is none greater in this house than I; neither hath he kept back any
thing from me but thee, because thou art his wife: how then can I do this
great wickedness, and sin against God?10 And it came to pass, as she
spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be
with her.11 And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into the house to
do his business; and there was none of the men of the house there within.12 And
she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he left his garment in her
hand, and fled, and got him out.13 And it came to pass, when she saw that he had
left his garment in her hand, and was fled forth,14 That she called unto the men of
her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us
to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice:15 And it
came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his
garment with me, and fled, and got him out.16 And she laid up his garment by her,
until his lord came home.17 And she spake unto him according to these words,
saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to
mock me:18 And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his
garment with me, and fled out.19 And it came to pass, when his master heard the
words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy
servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.20 And Joseph&#39;s master took him, and put
him into the prison, a place where the king&#39;s prisoners were bound: and he was there

in the prison.21 But the Lord was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave
him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.22 And the keeper of the prison
committed to Joseph&#39;s hand all the prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever
they did there, he was the doer of it.23 The keeper of the prison looked not to any
thing that was under his hand; because the Lord was with him, and that which he
did, the Lord made it to prosper.KJV
Gen 41:1-14
And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and, behold,
he stood by the river.2 And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well
favoured kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.3 And, behold, seven other
kine came up after them out of the river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by
the other kine upon the brink of the river.4 And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine
did eat up the seven well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.5 And he slept
and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears of corn came up upon one
stalk, rank and good.6 And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind
sprung up after them.7 And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full
ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream.
8 And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled; and he sent and
called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told
them his dream; but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.9 Then
spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day:10
Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the captain of the
guard&#39;s house, both me and the chief baker:11 And we dreamed a dream in one
night, I and he; we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his
dream.12 And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to the
captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams; to each
man according to his dream he did interpret.13 And it came to pass, as he
interpreted to us, so it was; me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.
14 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the
dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his raiment, and came in unto
Pharaoh.KJV
Gen 41:40-46
Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be
ruled: only in the throne will I be greater than thou.41 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph,
See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt.42 And Pharaoh took off his ring from
his hand, and put it upon Joseph&#39;s hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen,
and put a gold chain about his neck;43 And he made him to ride in the second
chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he made him
ruler over all the land of Egypt.44 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and
without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.45 And

Pharaoh called Joseph&#39;s name Zaphnath-paaneah; and he gave him to wife Asenath
the daughter of Poti-pherah priest of On. And Joseph went out over all the land of
Egypt.46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of
Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all
the land of Egypt.KJV
Gen 42-44
Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why
do ye look one upon another?2 And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn
in Egypt: get you down thither, and buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not
die.3 And Joseph&#39;s ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.4 But Benjamin,
Joseph&#39;s brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren; for he said, Lest peradventure
mischief befall him.5 And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that
came: for the famine was in the land of Canaan.6 And Joseph was the governor over
the land, and he it was that sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph&#39;s brethren
came, and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.7 And
Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange unto them,
and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them, Whence come ye? And they
said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.8 And Joseph knew his brethren, but they
knew not him.9 And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them,
and said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.10
And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy servants come.11 We
are all one man&#39;s sons; we are true men, thy servants are no spies.12 And he said
unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.13 And they said,
Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and,
behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is not.14 And Joseph said
unto them, That is it that I spake unto you, saying, Ye are spies:
15 Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence,
except your youngest brother come hither.16 Send one of you, and let him
fetch your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison, that your words may be
proved, whether there be any truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye
are spies.17 And he put them all together into ward three days.18 And Joseph said
unto them the third day, This do, and live; for I fear God:
19 If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison:
go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses:20 But bring your youngest brother
unto me; so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.21
And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we
saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us, and we would not hear; therefore
is this distress come upon us.
22 And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin
against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore, behold, also his blood is

required.23 And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for he spake unto them
by an interpreter.24 And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned
to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound
him before their eyes.25 Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to
restore every man&#39;s money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way: and
thus did he unto them.26 And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed
thence.27 And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn,
he espied his money; for, behold, it was in his sack&#39;s mouth.28 And he said unto his
brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, it is even in my sack: and their heart failed
them, and they were afraid, saying one to another, What is this that God hath done
unto us?29 And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and told
him all that befell unto them; saying,30 The man, who is the lord of the land, spake
roughly to us, and took us for spies of the country.31 And we said unto him, We are
true men; we are no spies:32 We be twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is
not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.33 And
the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye are true
men; leave one of your brethren here with me, and take food for the famine of your
households, and be gone:34 And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I
know that ye are no spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver you your brother,
and ye shall traffick in the land.35 And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks,
that, behold, every man&#39;s bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they and
their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.36 And Jacob their father
said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is
not, and ye will take Benjamin away: all these things are against me.37 And Reuben
spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee: deliver him
into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again.38 And he said, My son shall not go
down with you; for his brother is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by
the way in the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the
grave.43 And the famine was sore in the land.2 And it came to pass, when they had
eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them,
Go again, buy us a little food.3 And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did
solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be
with you.4 If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food:5
But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down: for the man said unto us, Ye shall
not see my face, except your brother be with you.6 And Israel said, Wherefore dealt
ye so ill with me, as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother?
7 And they said, The man asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is
your father yet alive? have ye another brother? and we told him according to the
tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother
down?8 And Judah said unto Israel his father, Send the lad with me, and we will
arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we, and thou, and also our little
ones.9 I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if I bring him not
unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame for ever:10 For

except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time.11 And their
father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, do this; take of the best fruits in the
land in your vessels, and carry down the man a present, a little balm, and a little
honey, spices, and myrrh, nuts, and almonds:12 And take double money in your
hand; and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it
again in your hand; peradventure it was an oversight:13 Take also your brother,
and arise, go again unto the man:14 And God Almighty give you mercy before the
man, that he may send away your other brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of
my children, I am bereaved.15 And the men took that present, and they took double
money in their hand, and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and stood
before Joseph.16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of
his house, Bring these men home, and slay, and make ready; for these men shall
dine with me at noon.17 And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the
men into Joseph&#39;s house.18 And the men were afraid, because they were brought
into Joseph&#39;s house; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our
sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion against us, and
fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses.19 And they came near to the
steward of Joseph&#39;s house, and they communed with him at the door of the house,20
And said, O sir, we came indeed down at the first time to buy food:21 And it came to
pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold, every man&#39;s
money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight: and we have brought it
again in our hand.22 And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy
food: we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks.23 And he said, Peace be
to you, fear not: your God, and the God of your father, hath
given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money. And he brought
Simeon out unto them.24 And the man brought the men into Joseph&#39;s house, and
gave them water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender.25
And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: for they heard that
they should eat bread there.26 And when Joseph came home, they brought him the
present which was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the
earth.27 And he asked them of their welfare, and said, Is your father well, the old
man of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive?28 And they answered, Thy servant our
father is in good health, he is yet alive. And they bowed down their
heads, and made obeisance.29 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his
brother Benjamin, his mother&#39;s son, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom
ye spake unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son.30 And Joseph
made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother: and he sought where to
weep; and he entered into his chamber, and wept there.31 And he washed his
face, and went out, and refrained himself, and said, Set on bread.32 And they set on
for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians, which did eat
with him, by themselves: because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the
Hebrews; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians.33 And they sat before him,

the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and
the men marvelled one at another.34 And he took and sent messes unto them from
before him: but Benjamin&#39;s mess was five times so much as any of theirs. And they
drank, and were merry with him.44 And he commanded the steward of his house,
saying, Fill the men&#39;s sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every
man&#39;s money in his sack&#39;s mouth.2 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack&#39;s
mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that
Joseph had spoken.3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away,
they and their asses.4 And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off,
Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake
them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good?5 Is not this it in
which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so
doing.6 And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.7 And
they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy
servants should do according to this thing:8 Behold, the money, which we found in
our sacks&#39; mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then
should we steal out of thy lord&#39;s house silver or gold?9 With whomsoever of thy
servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord&#39;s bondmen.10 And
he said, Now also let it be according unto your words; he with whom it is found shall
be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.11 Then they speedily took down every
man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack.12 And he searched,
and began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in
Benjamin&#39;s sack.13 Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and
returned to the city.14 And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph&#39;s house; for he
was yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.15 And Joseph said unto them,
What deed is this that ye have done? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly
divine?
16 And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how
shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy
servants: behold, we are my lord&#39;s servants, both we, and he also with whom the
cup is found.17 And he said, God forbid that I should do so: but the man in whose
hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you, get you up in peace
unto your father.18 Then Judah came near unto him, and said,
Oh my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in
my lord&#39;s ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy
servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh.19 My lord asked his
servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother?20 And we said unto my lord, We
have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is
dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.21 And thou saidst
unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that I may set mine eyes upon him.22

And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for if he should leave his
father, his father would die.23 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your
youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.24 And it came
to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him the words of my
lord.25 And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food.
26 And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we
go down: for we may not see the man&#39;s face, except our youngest brother be with
us.27 And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two
sons:28 And the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I
saw him not since:
29 And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my
gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.30 Now therefore when I come to thy servant my
father, and the lad be not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad&#39;s life;31 It
shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with us, that he will die: and
thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to
the grave.32 For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I
bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever.33 Now
therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord;
and let the lad go up with his brethren.34 For how shall I go up to my father, and the
lad be not with me? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.KJV
What had Joseph ascertained at this point?
Is it possible he was genuinely concerned His brother Benjamin
believing he may have suffered the same fate knowing that His
father would of favoured him in Josephs absence?
Gen 45
Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that
stood by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And
there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren.2
And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard.3 And
Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my father yet live? And his
brethren could not answer him; for they were troubled at his presence.4 And Joseph
said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he
said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.5 Now therefore
be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye
sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve
life.6 For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yet there are five
years, in the which there shall neither be earing nor harvest.7 And God sent me

before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth, and to save your lives by a
great deliverance.8 So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and he
hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler
throughout all the land of Egypt.9 Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto
him, Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down
unto me, tarry not:10 And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be
near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children&#39;s children, and thy flocks, and
thy herds, and all that thou hast:11 And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five
years of famine; lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to
poverty.12 And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it
is my mouth that speaketh unto you.13 And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in
Egypt, and of all that ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father
hither.14 And he fell upon his brother Benjamin&#39;s neck, and wept; and
Benjamin wept upon his neck.15 Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept
upon them: and after that his brethren talked with him.
16 And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh&#39;s house, saying, Joseph&#39;s brethren
are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants.17 And Pharaoh said unto
Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye; lade your beasts, and go, get you unto
the land of Canaan;
18 And take your father and your households, and come unto me: and I will give you
the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land.19 Now thou art
commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones,
and for your wives, and bring your father, and come.20 Also regard not your stuff; for
the good of all the land of Egypt is yours.21 And the children of Israel did so: and
Joseph gave them wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave
them provision for the way.22 To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment;
but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of
raiment.23 And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses laden with the good
things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father
by the way.24 So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said unto
them, See that ye fall not out by the way.25 And they went up out of Egypt, and
came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father,26 And told him, saying,
Joseph is yet alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob&#39;s heart
fainted, for he believed them not.27 And they told him all the words of Joseph, which
he had said unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to
carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived:28 And Israel said, It is enough;
Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him before I die.KJV

Gen 46:1-4

And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beer-sheba, and
offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac.2 And God spake unto Israel in the
visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I.3 And he
said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not to go
down into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great
nation:4 I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will
also surely bring thee up again: and Joseph shall put his
hand upon thine eyes.KJV

Ps 23
The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want.2 He maketh me to lie down in green
pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters.3 He restoreth my soul: he leadeth
me in the paths of righteousness for his name&#39;s sake.4 Yea, though I walk through
the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and
thy staff they comfort me.5 Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine
enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.6 Surely goodness
and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the
Lord for ever. KJV
How is the story of Israel’s refinement from Jacob and the family
history reflected in the nation of Israel all through out the word of
God?
Ps 118
O give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good: because his mercy endureth for ever.
2 Let Israel now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.3 Let the house of Aaron now
say, that his mercy endureth for ever.4 Let them now that fear the Lord say, that his
mercy endureth for ever.5 I called upon the Lord in distress: the Lord answered me,
and set me in a large place.6 The Lord is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do
unto me?
7 The Lord taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see my desire
upon them that hate me.8 It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in
man.
9 It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes.10 All nations
compassed me about: but in the name of the Lord will I destroy them.11 They
compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of the Lord I

will destroy them.12 They compassed me about like bees; they are quenched as the
fire of thorns: for in the name of the Lord I will destroy them.
13 Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the Lord helped me.
14 The Lord is my strength and song, and is become my salvation.15 The voice of
rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the
Lord doeth valiantly.16 The right hand of the Lord is exalted: the right hand of the
Lord doeth valiantly.
17 I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the Lord.18 The Lord hath
chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death.19 Open to me the
gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and I will praise the Lord:20 This gate of
the Lord, into which the righteous shall enter.21 I will praise thee: for thou hast heard
me, and art become my salvation.22 The stone which the builders refused is become
the head stone of the corner.23 This is the Lord&#39;s doing; it is marvellous in our
eyes.24 This is the day which the Lord hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.25
Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord: O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity.26
Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord: we have blessed you out of the
house of the Lord.27 God is the Lord, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice
with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.28 Thou art my God, and I will praise
thee: thou art my God, I will exalt thee.29 O give thanks unto the Lord; for he is
good: for his mercy endureth for ever.KJV