Maybe it’s 
Better the  devil you  “don’t know” 
66 rhetorical questions  For the ‘“devil ‘“

1 
Introduction 
 You may have heard the saying “better the devil you know  then the devil you don’t” and how it expresses the ideology of  sticking with what you already know rather than the unknown.  This saying is never so well enforced than in the minds of  Christians who are actively discouraged in examining God’s arch  nemesis too carefully. The devil we “know” is responsible for so  much suffering and pain in this world and we “know” at times he  lurks in the shadows and fosters our darkest fears. We could say  that there are times when he appears bigger than life and it is at  these moments we may cry out to God for his intervention.  
 It may come as a surprise to the reader that there is so much we  “know” about the devil that does not have its origins in biblical  scripture. You may have heard a Minister casually mention an  assumed mythological belief in the devil not based in scripture, but how quick the thought evaporated from your mind and  dissipated into the midst of uncertainty.  
This book is not so much a deep theological exposition of the devil  or Satan but rather a simple common-sense approach using both  logic and reason to show that you may not know as much about  the devil as you think you know. 
If I asked you to close your eyes and imagine an idealised  paradise, one thing I know for certain is that for each one of you  this paradise would be different. So too would be the result of  your mental image of Satan. Sure, there would be general  similarities but the differences would be staggering.
2 
Why?  
Because the Bible does not actually say what he looks like and  when we believe he is mentioned, he morphs from a beautiful  angel into a serpent which becomes a belly bound snake welded  to the earth. The snake who has a very low profile from here on  theologically transmutes into a Dragon or maybe an imperial King  or Pharaoh and then back into an Angel of Light. For some of us he  may even appear as a beast or the man of perdition and ultimately  an imitation of Christ. 
Is it any wonder he is also known to be the shape shifter? 
Try and compose a mental picture of something in a constant  state of flux and see what image you come up with. Now upon this  theological collage, God’s greatest opponent enters and he  appears as the stereotypical devil. Even though he has been  refined by John Milton who created an image of such a worthy  opponent to God that one could almost  
sympathise with him. The evolutionary  
process of the image of Satan has 
helped us conjure up an image of our 
Spiritual enemy as a force that is strong, 
someone worthy to fight against and to  
blame for our temptations.  
So, let’s now throw some questions at  
our designer “Satan” and we shall see if  
the most intelligent mind in the  
universe besides God can answer these basic questions. If you  conclude that within your understanding and framework of your  knowledge of the devil he fails to answer some, any, or all of the  questions then maybe it’s time to reveal the devil you don’t know.
3 
Index of 66 Questions for the Devil 
Question 1: If scripture states clearly that God alone is omnipresent how are you able to tempt all  people all over the world all at once? Pg.7 
Question 2: If you’re Angels Satan can act independently to God’s sovereign authority and run  amuck on earth surely you can too. Is it true that you Satan their commander and Chief were in  subjection to Gods authority in the book of Job? Pg.9 
Question 3: Do you (Satan) find the words of Christ which state that a man is led into sin by the  internal workings of the human heart a savage blow to your supernatural external influence  campaign? Pg.10 
Question 4: Why did God repent that he had made man (because his heart was evil continually), if you and your angels do all the evil tempting should not he have repented that He had made  you(Satan)? Pg.11 
Question 5: Satan, can you show us just one case of demonic possession found recorded in all the  Old Testament. Pg.12 
Question 6: How do you feel when you’re “supposed name” Lucifer/Daystar is misused by  Christians. Pg.14 
Question 7: When Jesus called Peter “Satan” did it upset you when He said to Peter… ‘You say the  things of Man’ and he didn’t say you speak the things of the fallen angel Satan that now possess your  soul? Pg.15 
Question 8: How do you manage to get people to believe you are the god of this world when Jesus  Christ has already been given all power and authority in heaven and here on earth? Pg.16 
Question 9: Do you (Satan) feel a bit put out when the bible states ‘the heart’ is deceitful above ALL  things when that no1position should belong to you? Pg.18 
Question 10: If Christ destroyed you by his death on the cross how come Satan your still supposedly  so alive and active? Pg.19 
Question 11: Do you (Satan)find it strange that God asks of us to love our enemies whilst all the time  he “supposedly” can’t forgive or love you? Pg.20 
Question 12: Are you (Satan) the serpent in Genesis Pg.21 
Question 13: If God supposedly sent You, the you being the serpent in Genesis to be belly bound to  the earth by diminishing your capabilities through God’s cursing ALL the days of your life (satan),  when did God reinstate your angelic fallen evil angel status Pg.22 
Question 14; Did you (Satan) play a role in the murder of Abel? Pg.23 
Question 15: Did you feel duped when God hardened Pharaoh’s heart when you (Satan) were more  than capable of doing the job on your own? Pg.24  
Question 16: If You (satan) and your evil angels were tempted and fell into sin and will ultimately die  why does the bible differentiate between man’s temptable nature and that of Angels? Pg.20 
Question 17: If we are to be made like the angels when we put on in corruption and immortality  how can the incorruptible be corrupted again. Pg.27  
Question 18: Why Satan, does it say in the bible that ALL of God’s angels are His ministering spirits,  shouldn’t it say only some are? Pg.28
4 
Question 19: Are you (satan) as superior in intelligence as we have been led to believe, when you  are apparently stupid enough to wage a war against an all-powerful omniscient God Pg.30 
Question 20: Do you (Satan) think it is unfair that the Angel of death works for God and  not for you? Pg.31  
Question 21: How did you (Satan) get us to believe in the defence argument or plea, that the Devil  made us do it in the blame shifting game you created? Pg.33 
Question 22: If you (Satan) are destroyed even before the bible says death is finally abolished. If  Christ’s resurrection abolished death, how do you manage to still exist considering the sequential  order of these next verses? Pg.34  
Question 23: How did you (Satan) manage to convince King David you don’t exist as he never wrote  one word about you? How could the man after God’s own heart not understand your 
workmanship? Pg.36 
Question 24: Did Job even once acknowledge that you (Satan) had power over his life and had  brought the calamity on Him? Pg.37 
Question 25: Is your name “Satan” an actual true name? Pg.39 Question 26: Who Got David to Number Israel was it you(Satan)? Pg.40 
Question 27: Are you (Satan) the one in question the first time your “name” is every mentioned in  scripture? Pg.41 
Question 28: Does it amaze you (Satan) that so many people know so much about what you aren’t  but so little about what you are? Pg.42 
Question 29: How can someone be a devil if you are the devil? Pg.44  Question 30: Did you (Satan) enter into Judas? Pg.45 
Question 31: If you (Satan) possessed Judas why were you subject to the directives of Christ whom  told you to act with haste? Pg. 46 
Question 32: Were you (Satan) the Pharisees’ Father, the supernatural devil? Pg. 47 Question 33: Did you (Satan) put the apostles in gaol? Pg. 51 
Question 34: The bible tells us that Carnal mind is enmity against God why isn’t that enmity  attributed to you (Satan)? Pg.53 
Question 35: Are You (Satan) the one we fight when it’s not flesh and blood but spiritual wickedness  in high places? Pg.54 
Question 36: Are your “high places” also heavenly places Satan? Pg.56 
Question 37: Does the greatest commandment of all condemn you (Satan)and declare Gods  sovereignty? Pg.58  
Question 38: Are you responsible for “evil” Satan? Pg.60 Question 39: If the Prophets of Old were monotheist are you (Satan) part of dualistic polytheism? Pg.63 Question 40: Are you (Satan) the messenger of light? Pg.65 
5 
Question 41: Are you (Satan) the one that tested/tempted Christ? Pg.70 Question 42: Did Christ heal one of your mute demons Satan? Pg.75  Question 43: were You (Satan) standing with Christ on the roof of the temple? Pg.77 Question 44: When you quoted Psalm 91 to Christ, why did you stop a line short,  
did you not like what the next line reveals about you? Pg.80 
Question 45: Why do you (Satan) prefer only two of the references of your serpent/snake identity  found in Genesis and Revelation and ignore all the many others that use the very same word  nacash? Pg.83 
Question 46: Are you (Satan) to blame for the state of the cursed earth in all its  corruption, today? Pg. 85  Question 47: Do you (Satan) cause natural disasters? Pg.91 Question 48: Why were you (Satan) first depicted in any known  
imagery as a blue angel in a church in the 6th century? Pg. 94 Question 49: Why were you crushed under the feet of the brethren? Pg.95 Question 50: When where and how are, you bound a thousand years? Pg.97 
Question 51: What about the demon possessed man and the herd of swine don’t they prove you  exist (Satan)? Pg.101 
Question 52: Do you (Satan) and your demons inhabit people? Pg.112 Question 53: Are you (Satan) the entry point of sin into creation? Pg.120 Question 54: Do you (Satan) rule hell? Pg.122 Question 55: Are you (Satan) the sea creature in Isaiah 27? Pg.127 Question:56 Did Jesus see you (Satan) fall Like lightening? Pg.130 Question 57: Did you (Satan) send the messenger to buffet Paul? Pg.136 Question 58: Are the “sons of God” (Satan) fallen angels? Pg.143 Question59: Did some of your fallen angels have sexual intercourse with women? Pg.145 Question 60: Was the spirit of infirmity a demon of yours Satan? Pg.147 
Question 61: Is your number 666 Satan? Pg.149 Question 62: was King Solomon an Instrument of your occult teaching Satan? Pg. 153 
Question 63: Can You (Satan) Bring fire down from heaven? Pg.154 Question 64: Do you (Satan) perform miracles to deceive people? Pg.160 Question 65: Do you (Satan) imitate Christs second coming Pg.161 Question 66: If You are so real where is the proof? Pg.164 End notes Tables and thoughts Pg.170 
6 
THE QUESTIONS 
Question 1: If scripture states clearly that God alone  
is omnipresent, how are you able to tempt all people  all over the world all at once? 
Consider the verses below which declare God’s omnipresence and then pause  to consider if you can think of just one verse in all of scripture which Satan’s  omnipresence is mentioned. 
Ps 139:7-12 Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy  presence?8 If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell,  behold, thou art there.9 If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost  parts of the sea;10 Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold  me.11 If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about  me.12 Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the  darkness and the light are both alike to thee. KJV 
Prov 15:3 The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the  good. KJV 
2 Chron 16:9 For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to  shew himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. Herein  thou hast done foolishly: therefore from henceforth thou shalt have wars. KJV 
Jer 23:23-24 Am I a God at hand, saith the Lord, and not a God afar off?24 Can any  hide himself in secret places that I shall not see him? saith the Lord. Do not I fill  heaven and earth? saith the Lord. KJV 
Job 34:21-22 For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings.22  There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of iniquity may hide  themselves. KJV 
Isa 57:15 For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose  name is Holy; I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and  humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite  ones. KJV 
Now if you are like most people considering this question for the first time, your natural reaction may be to say that the question is itself flawed, because  everyone knows the devil can tempt everyone. You may also consider that the  question comes from an unsound biblical understanding. Yet to this I respond have you ever thought that an angel can be everywhere all at once? If the  answer is no, then Satan must have logically evolved into being a god as much 
7 
as a fallen angel. If you are not interested in using the principle of biblical  precepts to substantiate your understanding of the devil, then this book is  most likely not for you. But if you want to follow what the bible states about  the devil then let’s put the facts out for all to see. 
Deut 31:6 Be strong and of a good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of them: for the  Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake  thee. KJV 
In the Old Testament, it was God who went before His people, it was God who  fought their battles and promised to never leave them. Because God changes  not and is the same yesterday today and tomorrow what he promised in the  old is, is now fulfilled in the new. Even thou man thought God’s abode was in  the heavens, God said he was present in ways we cannot image.  
Heb 13:5-8 Let your conversation be without covetousness; and be content with  such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.6  So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall  do unto me.7 Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto  you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation.8  Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever. KJV 
It is the power of God to be present in all our circumstances that gives us  comfort and testifies of his majesty which fills all things. This is part of what  makes God, God. If we are to say Satan can do this what are we believing, especially if there is not one bible verse to support such a belief. 
Matt 28:18-20 And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto  me in heaven and in earth.19 Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them  in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:20 Teaching them  to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you  alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen. KJV 
Does the bible say anywhere on its pages you (Satan) are capable of being  everywhere at once, are you omnipresent? Rate it…..
8 
Question 2: If you’re Angels Satan can act independently to God’s  sovereign authority and run amuck on earth surely you can too. Is  
it true that you Satan their commander and Chief were in subjection to Gods authority in the book of Job? 
Satan’s subjection to God’s authority in the book of Job has had the  Christian’s apologists’ busy for hundreds of years. It appears the devil is on a  very short leash and in this case at least, Satan is not even the instigator of the calamity that befalls Job. Many a bible study group have had a lively  discussion on this topic which leaves most asking more questions than they  have answered. It appears “the Satan” has the power to do all the devastation  mentioned to Job but even this God later says came from him, which again  leaves us at odds with our idea of the devil. 
Job 1:1212 And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power;  only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence  of the Lord. KJV 
Job 2:4-8 And Satan answered the Lord, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man  hath will he give for his life.5 But put forth thine hand now, and touch his bone and  his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face.6 And the Lord said unto Satan,  Behold, he is in thine hand; but save his life.7 So went Satan forth from the  presence of the Lord, and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto his  crown.8 And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself withal; and he sat down  among the ashes. KJV 
Satan in the story of Job appears briefly in the book at the beginning and then  seems to vanish off the page. 
What is an important point mentioned by God is that the Satan has his hand  upon all “He” has and that “he” being Job.  
It is an error to think that God is giving power to the devil to use all God has in  power to the Satan to hurt Job.  
Job 1:1212 And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power;  only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of  the Lord. KJV 
If Satan can only do what God allows him to do He gets a thumb down or do  the verses state, he has unbridled authority independent to God?
9 
Question 3; Do you (Satan) find the words of Christ which state  that a man is led into sin by the internal workings of the human  
heart a savage blow to your supernatural external influence  campaign? 
Matt 15:18-20 But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from  the heart; and they defile the man.19 For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts,  murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies:20 These  are the things which defile a man: but to eat with unwashen hands defileth not a  man. KJV 
James 1:13-15 Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God  cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man:14 But every man is  tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed.15 Then when lust  hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. 
KJV 
Do you (Satan) defile us from without or does temptation that leads to sin  come from deep within the human heart?

10 
Question 4; Why did God repent that he had made man (because his heart was evil continually), if you and your angels do all the  evil tempting should not he have repented that He had made  you(Satan)? 
Gen 6:5-7 And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and  that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.6  And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at  his heart.7 And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face  of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for  it repenteth me that I have made them. KJV 
Gen 6:11-13 
The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.12  And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had  corrupted his way upon the earth.13 And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh  is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I  will destroy them with the earth. KJV 
Does scripture reveal God blaming you (Satan) and your evil angels for the  corruption on the earth or the evil in the heart of man?

11 
Question 5; Satan, can you show us just one case of demonic  possession found recorded in all the Old Testament? 
There are no bible verses to place here as they don’t exist. Maybe this is first time this has been brought to your attention if so … it is an  important point to meditate upon. The closest to this we can  find is a problem for the evil spirit 
1 Sam 16:14 But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and  an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. KJV 
Does the bible state that Satan and His evil angels possessed  anyone in the Old Testament? 
So, how’s the devil you “know” fairing so far is he getting any  thumbs up? Are you finding the questions problematic and in  your mind, you’ve found yourself unwittingly playing the devil’s  advocate? If Satan has received 5 thumbs down it is time we give  him a bit of a makeover and rewrite his profile page and take  check of what we know about the devil. 
According to the bible these are the changes we may need to adjust of our image of Satan so far.  
The devil doesn’t have the ability to be  everywhere all at once and he is subject to Gods  authority and in addition to this He apparently 
cannot externally temp us. He also appears to be  absent on Gods radar as the cause of the evil on 
earth before the flood. In addition to all this it 
12 
looks like He and his evils angels may not have possessed anyone  in the Old Testament according to the Word of God. 
Now of course this will be open to personal interpretation and  there are many other factors and variables to be considered, but  remember we still have 61 more questions for the devil which I  think will address most, if not all of these considerations. So, let’s  move on with the next question and simultaneously address some  of the private interpretations that may manifest themselves.
13 
Question 6: How do you feel when you’re “supposed name” Lucifer/Daystar is misused by Christians? 
2 Peter 1:19-20 We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well  that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and  the day star arise in your hearts:20 Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the  scripture is of any private interpretation. KJV 
As you can see below the word for day star in the Latin is translated Lucifer  but I think for obvious reasons was not translated as such in the text above. I  would encourage you to research this further as it was my own research on  this topic which started me thinking about the authenticity of the lucifer text in  the first place. In a rather sad irony the truth can always withstand more light  being shone upon it and I would encourage you to question my answers in  carrying out your own research as this book is not exhaustive to the topics  and issues discussed and greater blessings await those who seek for more  light on each topic.  
Day star: STRONGS NT 5459: φωσφόρος (Latin Lucifer), the planet  Venus, the morning-star, day-star (Plato, Tim. Locr., p. 96 e.; Plutarch,  others): 2 Peter 1:19, on the meaning of this passage, see λύχνος.  
Strongs 1966ל ֵיל noun masculine appellative shining one, epithet of   thou art how 14:12 Isaiah בֶּ ןש ָּׁ ָֿׁ֑ חַ ר ׳אֵ יְך נָּׁפַ לְ תָָּּׁ מִ שָּׁ מַ יִ ם ה ,Babylon of king fallen, shinning one, son of dawn ! i.e. star of the morning. (compare  Assyrian muštilil, epithet of (Venus a) morning-star  
Is it possible the text that tells us no scripture is open to private interpretation  is one of the most privately interpreted text in scripture whereby the morning  star can mean Satan in Isaiah 14 ,12 and God in 2 Peter 1,19? 
Does the words daystar, morning star or Venus describe you Lucifer in one  instance and Christ in another found in the book of revelation?  
Does God want you Satan to rise in our hearts?
14 
Question 7: When Jesus called Peter “Satan” did it upset you  when He said to Peter… ‘You say the things of Man’ and he didn’t  say you speak the things of the fallen angel Satan that now  possess your soul? 
Matt 16:22-23 
Then Peter took him, and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord: this  shall not be unto thee.23 But he turned, and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me,  Satan: thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of  God, but those that be of men. KJV 
It is important to note, the word Satan used in the text comes from the word  Satanas which mean adversary or to oppose or one who stands in the way  which is exactly what Peter was doing in this instance. Some bible translations  acknowledge this literal meaning such as in Youngs Literal Translation …  Mark 8:33 and having looked on his disciples, rebuked Peter, saying, 'Get behind  me, Adversary, because thou dost not mind the things of God, but the things of men. 
YLT 
Satan. Of Chaldee origin corresponding to ma'bad (with the definite affix); the  accuser, i.e. The devil -- Satan. see HEBREW ma'bad 
Why did Christ say you say the things of men should he have not said you say  the things of Satan that now possess your soul? Why did Christ ask the  supernatural devil to get out of the way and to get behind him?  
Why is it that we don’t have a problem with why Peter rebuked Jesus because  the setting up of the earthly kingdom in Peter’s mind had nothing to do with  his king being sacrificed on a cross. There are countless instances of not just  Peter but all the disciples making this mistake were they all possessed of the  devil or only Peter and just in this one instance?  
As you can see the more logical the questions the more and more the devil  seems to have problems. 
Did Christ say you (Satan) were speaking through Peter?
15 
Question 8: How do you manage to get people to believe you are  the god of this world when Jesus Christ has already been given all  power and authority in heaven and here on earth? 
Consider the biblical precepts being explored below in the light of the question  being asked. 
Matt 28:18 And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto  me in heaven and in earth. KJV 
2 Cor 4:2-4 But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in  craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully; but by manifestation of the truth  commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God.3 But if our  gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost:4 In whom the god of this world hath  blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of  Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. KJV 
Rom 16:17-20 Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and  offences contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoid them.18 For they  that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly; and by good  words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple.19 For your obedience is  come abroad unto all men. I am glad therefore on your behalf: but yet I would have  you wise unto that which is good, and simple concerning evil.20 And the God of  peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus  Christ be with you. Amen. KJV 
The word Satan in the above text is Strong’s 4567 which has already been  shown is “the adversary “who is clearly outlined as those speaking smooth  words who are bent on deception, their earthly mind and appetite for profit is  the god of this world  
Phil 3:18-19 (For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even  weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:19 Whose end is  destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who mind  earthly things.) KJV 
The verse below is used by some to say Satan does have this power; however, it highlights the revelation of the devil you don’t know. That is ...that a straw  man devil that is extraneous to us can be blamed for our sin. Could it be that 
16 
this devil of dualistic origin veneers over the biblical evil that is found  amalgamated to the rebellious human heart of man? 
When Christ comes into the evil machinations of the adversary’s heart he  destroys the man of sin within and gives us of His glorious self to live within  us that is his holy presence in this clay vessel. It is an allegory most amazing,  which I believe sits in harmony with all scripture, as the mystery of the iniquity is revealed, the evil human beastly heart. This heart of enmity toward God is  removed by his glory spontaneously consuming the old nature whilst  simultaneously filling the void made by the consummation with his glorious  presence.  
2 Thess 2:7-14 For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now  letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way.8 And then shall that Wicked be  revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall  destroy with the brightness of his coming:9 Even him, whose coming is after the  working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,10 And with all  deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not  the love of the truth, that they might be saved.11 And for this cause God shall  send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie:12 That they all might  be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.13  But we are bound to give thanks alway to God for you, brethren beloved of the Lord,  because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through  sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth:14 Whereunto he called you by  our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. KJV 
John 17:22-23 
And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them; that they may be one,  even as we are one:23 I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in  one; and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as  thou hast loved me. KJV 
Are you (Satan) in a position of power on earth and therefore  Christ does not have all power and authority on earth? 
17 
Question 9: Do you (Satan) feel a bit put out when the bible  states ‘the heart’ is deceitful above ALL things when that no1 position should belong to you? 
As we survey the biblical evidence that the human heart is more deceitful  than Satan consider how this sits with all that you have been taught about the  devil and what this now means. 
Jer 17:9-10 The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked: who  can know it?10 I the Lord search the heart, I try the reins, even to give every man  according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings. KJV 
Gen 6:5 And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that  every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. KJV 
Ps 58:2-3 Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; ye weigh the violence of your hands  in the earth.3 The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as  they be born, speaking lies. KJV 
Ps 140:1-4 Deliver me, O Lord, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent  man;2 Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they gathered  together for war.3 They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent(nacash);  adders' poison is under their lips. Selah.4 Keep me, O Lord, from the hands of the  wicked; preserve me from the violent man;  
Prov 6:18 An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in  running to mischief KJV 
Now remember the next verse as we go through and  
discover more about what Satan is and what he isn’t we  
begin to see how God bound the adversarial heart for a  
long period of time until the coming of the kingdom. 
Prov 6:20-21 My son, keep thy father's commandment, and  
forsake not the law of thy mother:21 Bind them  
continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck. 
KJV 
Of all that is in existence are you (Satan) above all things the most deceitful?
18 
Question 10; If Christ destroyed you by his death on the cross  how come Satan your still supposedly so alive and active? 
Heb 2:14-15 Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he  also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy  him that had the power of death, that is, the devil;15 And deliver them who  through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. KJV 
As you read the next two verses take note the similarities they have with the  verse above. The common factor in all three is the destruction of sin as it is sin  that is the adversary to God and man. 
1 John 3:8 He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the  beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy  the works of the devil. KJV 
Rom 6:5-9 For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we  shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:6 Knowing this, that our old man is  crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we  should not serve sin.7 For he that is dead is freed from sin.8 Now if we be dead with  Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:9 Knowing that Christ being raised  from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him. KJV 
It is important to note that the KJV bible employs the word “destroy” in five  instances Lexicon :: Strong's G2673 - katargeō 
καταργέω katargéō, kat-arg-eh'-o; from G2596 and G691; to be (render) entirely  idle (useless), literally or figuratively:—abolish, cease, cumber, deliver,  destroy, do away, become (make) of no (none, without) effect, fail, loose, bring  (come) to nought, put away (down), vanish away, make void. 
The KJV translates Strong's G2673 in the following manner: destroy (5x), do  away (3x), abolish (3x), cumber (1x), loose (1x), cease (1x), fall (1x), deliver (1x), mis cellaneous (11x). 
1 Cor 6:13 Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall destroy (2673) both it and them. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord  for the body. KJV 
2 Thess 2:8 And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume  with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy(2673) with the brightness of his  coming: KJV 
Does the bible say Satan you were destroyed by Christs sacrifice  on the cross?
19 
Question 11; Do you (Satan)find it strange that God asks of us to  love our enemies whilst all the time he “supposedly” can’t forgive  or love you? 
Luke 6:27-36 But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them  which hate you,28 Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which  despitefully use you.29 And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also  the other; and him that taketh away thy cloke forbid not to take thy coat also.30 Give  to every man that asketh of thee; and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them  not again.31 And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them  likewise.32 For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? for sinners  also love those that love them.33 And if ye do good to them which do good to you,  what thank have ye? for sinners also do even the same.34 And if ye lend to them of  whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, to  receive as much again.35 But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend,  hoping for nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children  of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil.36 Be ye therefore  merciful, as your Father also is merciful. KJV 
Maybe you have never considered this all-important point; that if God has any  enemies who he does not extend forgiveness and love to, he leaves himself  open to being labelled as being hypocritical in asking us to love our enemies.

20 
Question 12: Are you (Satan) the serpent in Genesis? 
If we look at the text in which the serpent is first introduced, we can easily  miss what is being said. Does the text make a comparison between the  serpent and beasts of the field or does it state that of all the beasts of the field,  the serpent is the subtlest? If we just take the word of God alone and don’t use 
the common conjecture that the post curse animal is the same as the pre curse animal, then we must resolve that the only conclusion is that the serpent  was a beast of the field and not a snake of sorts. 
Why was it subtler? The fact that it could talk is a clue but the real question is,  are we guilty of giving this serpent power that God when cursing took away. 
Gen 3:1Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the  Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not  eat of every tree of the garden? KJV 
If we are to say that the beast was the comparison to the serpent, then it really  doesn’t make sense. Why not say it was subtler than anything else in creation.  I think we must consider that this serpent could walk like a beast of the field  because the curse upon him took this ability away. Maybe you have never  considered this important point and if that be so, you would benefit from  thinking more deeply about this.  
Gen 3:14 And the Lord God said unto the serpent,  
Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all  
cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly  
shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy  
life: KJV 
Was the serpent a legless belly earth bound snake  
before the curse or after? How did this earth welded  
creature get to walking around upon the earth in the  
book of Job?  
Are you the Satan the serpent in genesis? 
21 
Question 13: If God supposedly sent You the serpent in Genesis  to be belly bound to the earth by diminishing your capabilities  through God’s cursing ALL the days of your life (satan), when did  God reinstate your angelic fallen evil angel status? 
Gen 3:1414 And the Lord God said unto the  
serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art  
cursed above all cattle, and above every  
beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou  
go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy  
life: KJV  
If we say that God’s curse upon the serpent  
is not literal then why are all the other curses  
decreed by God literal relating to the fall? 
Precepts in the Genesis story don’t allow us  
to pick and choose. If the spiritual allegory is  
to be derived from scripture, it’s depth of  
meaning is unfolded first in the  
comprehension of the literal. Do snakes eat  
dirt or do worms? The precept is simple, 
God is diminishing the serpent’s capabilities and its freedom to be less than  all other beasts of the field who are now better off than the serpent. 
Does God’s word state this curse was revoked in the life span of the serpent  as there is no scripture verse that says you go from worm to supernatural  fallen angel Satan? 
22 
Question 14; Did you (Satan) play a role in the murder of Abel? 
Gen 4:7-8 If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well,  sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over  him.8 And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were in  the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him. KJV 
In this verse, we have the first occurrence of the word sin and it is also  portrayed as a personification. Sin is likened to a beast that lay at a door  waiting to come in and Cain should keep this metaphorical beast called sin  out. The serpent is called a He but here sin is a “him”. Here we have the very  first-time sin is ever mentioned in the bible and it is allegorically expressed as  a male beast, which is an enemy to Cain’s freedom that desires to dominate  him. 

Was the beast called “sin” the tempter of Cain or was it you Satan?
23 
Question 15; Did you feel duped when God hardened Pharaoh’s  heart when you (Satan) were more than capable of doing the job  on your own? 
Why does the bible say that God had sovereign authority over the actioning of  the hardening of Pharaoh’s heart and the exodus of Israel out of Pharaohs’  hands? The reality is per scripture that Satan is never mentioned once or even  hinted at having anything to do with the most important event in the ancient  world to the Israelite nation. 
Ex 7:13-14 13 And he hardened Pharaoh's heart, that he hearkened not unto  them; as the Lord had said.14 And the Lord said unto Moses, Pharaoh's heart is  hardened, he refuseth to let the people go. KJV 
Ex 9:12 And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not  unto them; as the Lord had spoken unto Moses. KJV 
Ex 10:20 But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the  children of Israel go. KJV 
Ex 11:10 And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: and the  Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the children of Israel go  out of his land. KJV 
Ex 14:8 And the Lord hardened the heart of  
Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued after the  
children of Israel: and the children of Israel went out  
with an high hand. KJV 
 Did you Satan play a role in the rebellious and stubborn hardness of  Pharaohs’ heart or was God responsible for the prolonging of the  captivity of Israel?
24 
So, let’s pause for a moment and see if the Devil we know needs another  makeover. 
First, we need to go back and focus on the first make over and then build on  that foundation  
Remember we discovered that…. The devil doesn’t  
have the ability to be everywhere all at once  
and he is subject to Gods authority and in  
addition to this He apparently cannot  
externally temp us. He also appears to be  
absent on Gods radar as the cause of the evil  
on earth before the flood. In addition to all this it looks like He and  his evils angels may not have possessed anyone in the Old  Testament according to the Word of God. 
Now to this we can add. 
From a sound scriptural perspective, the name Lucifer does not  apparently pertain to Satan at least in an exclusive sense. Peter  evidently spoke from ‘man’s’ wisdom  
and not the devils and that Christs has  
total power and authority on earth  
leaving no reserves for the devil. To this  
we have seen that the heart is deceitful  
above everything and this includes the  
devil, that Christ apparently destroyed  
on the cross by His death. As we tighten the focus a little more on  the image of Satan we must at least acknowledge that the Bible  doesn’t call the serpent in genesis anything more than a beast  which is also referred to as sin waiting to get into Cains heart. We  have also noticed that this serpents curse is never revoked by God  anywhere in the word of God and a cow has more autonomy then  the cursed serpent.
25 
Question 16; If You (satan) and your evil angels were tempted  and fell into sin and will ultimately die why does the bible  differentiate between man’s temptable nature and that of  Angels? 
We just seem to naturally assume that angels can be tempted and call fall into  sin as they must have been tempted to be able to fall from  heaven to earth. 
The idea of demonic spirits being the fallen angels  
that were tempted is very difficult to reconcile with  
this next verse. 
Heb 2:14-18 Forasmuch then as the children are  
partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part  
of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had  
the power of death, that is, the devil;15 And deliver them who  
through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to  
bondage.16 For verily he took not on him the nature of  
angels; but he took on him the seed of Abraham.17  
Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto  
his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high  
priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the  
sins of the people.18 For in that he himself hath suffered  
being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted. 
KJV 
Surely if angels can be tempted then the verse above makes no sense. 

Can angels be tempted Satan?

26 

Question 17; If we are to be made like the angels when we put on  in corruption and immortality how can the incorruptible be  corrupted again? 
Matt 22:29-32 Jesus answered and said unto them, Ye do err, not knowing the  scriptures, nor the power of God.30 For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor  are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven.31 But as touching  the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by  God, saying,32 I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of  Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. KJV 
This same event is described elsewhere in the bible as shown below and when  we combine the two we get a theological impossibility for the fallen angel idea. 
1 Cor 15:51-57 Behold, I shew you a mystery; We shall not all sleep, but we shall all  be changed,52 In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the  trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be  changed.53 For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on  immortality.54 So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this 
mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is  written, Death is swallowed up in victory.55 O death, where is thy sting? O grave,  where is thy victory?56 The sting of death is sin; and the strength of sin is the law.57  But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. KJV 
Common sense and logic reveals that the angels are incorruptible. 
What sense would there be in making us like something that is corruptible all  over again? 
Shall we Satan be raised like angels that can be corrupted? 
27 
Question 18; Why Satan, does it say in the bible that ALL of God’s  angels are His ministering spirits, shouldn’t it say only some are? 
Heb 1:10-14 And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast  
laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens  
are the works of thine hands:11 They shall perish;  
but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as  
doth a garment;12 And as a vesture shalt thou fold  
them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art  
the same, and thy years shall not fail.13 But to  
which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on  
my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy  
footstool?14 Are they not ALL ministering spirits,  
sent forth to minister for them who shall be  
heirs of salvation? KJV 
A lot of confusion on angels has stemmed from not  understanding that unless the bible indicates the “angel”  comes from or resides in the spiritual realm of God’s divine  presence they are “messengers’” and may be divine or  
Human because the literal translation of the word angel  
means messenger. So, what about the verse in Jude 
where “Angels” left their first estate?  
The Angels are messengers who once walked in the counsel of God but left it  to fight against the Gospel of Truth. The messengers are people like Adam and  Eve whom left their first estate or their Israel whom went into Egypt and they’re even the Pharisees who forsook the true temple for their own man 
made version.  
Jude 1-8 Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to them that are  sanctified by God the Father, and preserved in Jesus Christ, and called:2 Mercy unto  you, and peace, and love, be multiplied.3 Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write  unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you, and  exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered  unto the saints.4 For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before  of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our God  into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our Lord Jesus Christ.5 I  will therefore put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this, how that the Lord, 
28 
having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed them that  believed not.6 And the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own  habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment  of the great day.7 Even as Sodom and Gomorrha, and the cities about them in like  manner, giving themselves over to fornication, and going after strange flesh, are set  forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire.8 Likewise also these  filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities. KJV 
When we read on we find more about evil and the heart of man even though  the supernatural satan is often injected into the text as the Adversary instead  of Man. The beasts are people which spoke evil of God the God of the living  and not the dead. The lack of understanding of these spiritual shadows of the  Gospel in the old Testament saw these fallen stars of Gods who were to be  shining lights His messenger’s being twice dead consumed in their own  darkness.  
Satan did not put on the feasts mentioned below  
men did. 
Jude 9-13 9 Yet Michael the archangel,  
when contending with the devil he disputed  
about the body of Moses, durst not bring  
against him a railing accusation, but said,  
The Lord rebuke thee.10 But these speak  
evil of those things which they know not: but  
what they know naturally, as brute beasts, in  
those things they corrupt themselves.11 Woe  
unto them! for they have gone in the way of  
Cain, and ran greedily after the error of Balaam  
for reward, and perished in the gainsaying of Core. 12 These are spots in your  feasts of charity, when they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear:  clouds they are without water, carried about of winds; trees whose fruit withereth,  without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots;13 Raging waves of the sea,  foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness  of darkness for ever. KJV 
As you can see in the last verse above that these men seem to get the same  thing that is reserved for the devil and his angels. Could it be that the  Adversary and the messengers of Gods false gospel are that same thing, men who are described in these verses? 
Satan are you a ministering spirit sent by God to minister for my  salvation?
29 
Question 19; Are you (satan) as superior in intelligence as we  have been led to believe, when you are apparently stupid enough  to wage a war against an all-powerful omniscient God? 
Heb 4:13 Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all  things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. KJV 
Eccl 12:12 For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing,  whether it be good, or  
whether it be evil. KJV 
Why have we never  
considered the question of  
Satan’s rebellion and  
intelligence considering 
Gods ability and glory? 
Ps 139:1-8 O Lord, thou hast searched me, and known me.2 Thou knowest my  downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off.3 Thou  compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.4 For  there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether.5 Thou  hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me.6 Such knowledge is  too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain unto it.7 Whither shall I go from thy  spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?8 If I ascend up into heaven, thou  art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. KJV 
How hard would it be to fight against a God who not only knows every plan  you make before you make it but has unlimited power to defeat you in the  process. 
Does the bible say you are Intelligent Satan?
30 
Question 20; Do you (Satan) think it is unfair that the Angel of  death works for God and not for you? 
2 Kings 19:35 And it came to  
pass that night, that the angel of  
the Lord went out, and smote  
in the camp of the Assyrians an  
hundred fourscore and five  
thousand: and when they arose  
early in the morning, behold,  
they were all dead corpses. 
KJV 
Ex 12:23 For the Lord will  
pass through to smite the  
Egyptians; and when he seeth  
the blood upon the lintel, and on  
the two side posts, the Lord will  
pass over the door, and will not  
suffer the destroyer to come in  
unto your houses to smite you. 
KJV 
Does it seem strange that the one who executes death then, and now in the  lake of fire, is God in His sovereignty? How many people attribute this to Satan  yet His hands are tied. The Satan in Job was not allowed to take life Just as it  was God who bruised Christ on the cross. The only verse that even hints that  he has some sort of power of death doesn’t end well for the devil. Why,  because, it states he is destroyed in that verse at the cross. It may be said the  verse is stating, that because eternal life is given at the cross the “enemy”  called death is destroyed in the presence of that gift. 
Heb 2:14 
Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself  likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had  the power of death, that is, the devil; KJV 
Does the destroying Angel work for you (Satan)? 
31 
A special message: 
If you have found the need to revaluate the  
devil’s profile as some of the myths about  
him are being deconstructed, we may well 
ask what we “now” do with all the evil we  
see around us every day in this world. The  
answer is one which I consider to be very  
delicate and great care needs to be used as  
the devil diminishes in liability and we  
become more accountable for our own sin.  
A danger is that as we have been taught to blame Satan for  leading us into sin we may continue this approach and blame God  rather than our own heart. 
This was what happened the moment sin entered we blamed  everyone but ourselves and if the truth be told we have been  doing it ever since. Which leads to this next thought…? 
32 
Question 21; How did you (Satan) get us to believe in the  defence argument or plea, that the Devil made us do it in the  blame shifting game you created? 
So, Adam blamed the woman and indirectly blames God because He gave her  to him. The woman then blames the serpent. But God specifically states to  Adam because you listened to your wife (not the serpent) and breaks the  blame game right there and then. It is important to note also that the woman is  not cursed for listening to the serpent as well but God merely says because  you have done this. 
Gen 3:11-17 And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of  the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?12 And the man  said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree,  and I did eat.13 And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast  done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.14 And the  Lord God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above  all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust  shalt thou eat all the days of thy life:15 And I will put enmity between thee and the  woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou  shalt bruise his heel.16 Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and  thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy  husband, and he shall rule over thee.17 And unto Adam he said, Because thou  hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I  commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake;  in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; KJV 
The reality is that there is not one bible verse that says the supernatural fallen  angel can make us do anything? We make that decision from within. 
Does the bible say we can blame you (Satan) for sin? 
33 
Question 22: If you Satan are destroyed even before the bible  says death is finally abolished. If Christ’s resurrection abolished  death, how do you manage to still exist considering the sequential  order of these next verses?  
1 Cor 15:25-28 For he must reign, till he hath  
put all enemies under his feet.26 The last  
enemy that shall be destroyed is death.27  
For he hath put all things under his feet. But  
when he saith, all things are put under him, it is  
manifest that he is excepted, which did put all  
things under him.28 And when all things shall  
be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also  
himself be subject unto him that put all things  
under him, that God may be all in all. KJV 
2 Tim 1:9-10 
Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according  to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was  given us in Christ Jesus before the world began,10 But is now made  manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath  abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light 
through the gospel: KJV 
Rev 20:10-15 And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and  brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day  and night for ever and ever.11 And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it,  from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no place  for them.12 And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books  were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead  were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their 
34 
works.13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell  delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judged every man  according to their works.14 And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire.  This is the second death.15 And whosoever was not found written in the book of  life was cast into the lake of fire. KJV 
When death is abolished are you (Satan) still alive? 
35 
Question 23; How did you (Satan) manage to convince King  David you don’t exist as he never wrote one word about you? How  could the man after God’s own heart not understand your  workmanship?  
David’s adversary was never acknowledged by him as being a supernatural  fallen angel whose demon minions possessed the souls of those that opposed  him. No! King David’s enemies or adversaries were always acknowledged by  him as being people. 
Ps 7:1-6 O Lord my God, in thee do I put my  
trust: save me from all them that  
persecute me, and deliver me:2 Lest he  
tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces,  
while there is none to deliver.3 O Lord my  
God, if I have done this; if there be iniquity in  
my hands;4 If I have rewarded evil unto him  
that was at peace with me; (yea, I have delivered  
him that without cause is mine enemy:)5 Let the  
enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yea, let  
him tread down my life upon the earth, and lay  
mine honour in the dust. Selah.6 Arise, O Lord,  
in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage  
of mine enemies: and awake for me to the  
judgment that thou hast commanded. KJV 
Ps 23:5 Thou preparest a table before me in the  
presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my  
head with oil; my cup runneth over. KJV 
Did King David believe in You (Satan)?
36 
Question 24: Did Job even once acknowledge that you (Satan)  had power over his life and had brought the calamity on Him? 
Job 2:9-10 Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? curse  God, and die.10 But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women  speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not  receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips. KJV 
Job 2:3 And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that  there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth  God, and escheweth evil? and still he holdeth fast his integrity, although thou  movedst me against him, to destroy him without cause. KJV 
Job 19:1-16 Then Job answered and said,2 How long will ye vex my soul, and break  me in pieces with words?3 These ten times have ye reproached me: ye are not  ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to me.4 And be it indeed that I have  erred, mine error remaineth with myself.5 If indeed ye will magnify yourselves  against me, and plead against me my reproach:6 Know now that God hath  overthrown me, and hath compassed me with his net.7 Behold, I cry out of  wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but there is no judgment.8  
He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set  darkness in my paths.9 He hath stripped me of my glory, and  taken the crown from my head.10 He hath destroyed me on  every side, and I am gone: and mine hope hath he removed like a  tree.11 He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he  counteth me unto him as one of his enemies.12 His troops come  together, and raise up their way against me, and encamp round  about my tabernacle.13 He hath put my brethren far from me,  and mine acquaintance are verily estranged from me.14 My  kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten me.15 They that dwell in  
mine house, and my maids, count me for a stranger: I am an alien in their sight.16 I  called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I intreated him with my mouth. KJV 
If we were to say that Job was delirious and did not mean what He meant concerning God then we have God’s own testimony that Job was correct in  what he said to deal with.
37 
Job 42:1-8 Then Job answered the Lord, and said,2 I know that thou canst do every  thing, and that no thought can be withholden from thee.3 Who is he that hideth  counsel without knowledge? therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things too  wonderful for me, which I knew not.4 Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will  demand of thee, and declare thou unto me.5 I have heard of thee by the hearing of  the ear: but now mine eye seeth thee.6 Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust  and ashes.7 And it was so, that after the Lord had spoken these words unto Job, the  Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy  two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant  Job hath.8 Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to  my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job  shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye  have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job. KJV 
Did Job acknowledge you (Satan) as being the one behind his  suffering?
38 
Question 25; Is your name “Satan” an actual true name? 
Note; how in the Hebrew meaning of satan the ‘s’ is not capitalised this is  because it is not a personal name but rather a title.  
 atan 
Satan Hebrew: ן ָּׂט ָּׂש satan, meaning "enemy" or "adversary 
The word "satan" in Hebrew literally means "enemy, opposer or adversary”, it does not however refer to the supernatural enemy of God as a specific being or  character. 
ha satan" is thus a common noun, not a proper noun; it is not someone's  name. 
Is your name Satan a proper noun capitalised in the original text or  is it a title? 
39 
Question 26; Who Got David to Number Israel was it  you(Satan)? 
1 Chron 21:1,2 And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to  number Israel.2 And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go, number  Israel from Beer-sheba even to Dan; and bring the number of them to me, that I may  know it. KJV 
If we were to insist on Satan being  
the one who gets David to number  
Israel then we discover in the  
verse mentioned below that Satan  
is called the Lord as he is the one  
who gets David to number Israel.  
Now that just sounds wrong,  
doesn’t it? 
What is scripturally consistent is  
that the Lord is opposing David’s  
actions and is acting to the Adversary to the heart of David who is no longer  trusting in the Lord like the boy with his slingshot once did. 
2 Sam 24:1-2 And again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and  he moved David against them to say, Go, number Israel and Judah.2 For the  king said to Joab the captain of the host, which was with him, Go now through all the  tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, and number ye the people, that I may  know the number of the people. KJV 
Did you (Satan) get David to number Israel?
40 
Question 27; Are you (satan) the one in question the first time  your “name” is every mentioned in scripture? 
There are a few places where "satan" is not found without the definite article that is with the ha meaning “the”, but if you were to think that these passages  will prove Satan is the devils name unfortunately you may have to think again.  
Why, because in some of these unique verses it is referring to the Angel of the  Lord functioning as an "adversary, opposer" or "satan". See 
Num 22:22,32;  
1 Sam 29:4; 2 Sam 19:23; 1 Chron 21:1.  
1 Chron 21:1-2And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to number  Israel.2 And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go, number Israel  from Beer-sheba even to Dan; and bring the number of them to me, that I may know  it. KJV 
It may come as a surprise to many that the first Time Satan is mentioned in  scripture we can ascertain through a parallel verse is already mentioned in  Question 26 that It is God who provoked David. 
Is the first “Satan” in Scripture you Satan? 
41 
Question 28; Does it amaze you (Satan) that so many people  know so much about what you aren’t but so little about what you  are? 
So, let’s recap what we have discovered so far and bring you into  a clearer focused image. 
Remember we discovered that…. The devil doesn’t  
have the ability to be everywhere all at once  
and he is subject to Gods authority and in  
addition to this He apparently cannot  
externally temp us. He also appears to be  
absent on Gods radar as the cause of the evil  
on earth before the flood. In addition to all  
this it looks like He and his evils angels may  
not have possessed anyone in the Old  
Testament according to the Word of God. 
Now to this we can add. 
From a sound scriptural  
perspective, the name Lucifer does  
not apparently pertain to Satan at  
least in an exclusive sense. Peter  
evidently spoke from ‘man’s’  
wisdom and not the devils and that  
Christs has total power and  
authority on earth leaving no  
reserves for the devil. To this we have seen that the heart is  deceitful above everything and this includes the devil, that Christ apparently destroyed on the cross by His death. As we tighten the  focus a little more on the image of Satan we must at least  acknowledge that the Bible doesn’t call the serpent in genesis 
42 
anything more than a beast which is also referred to as sin  waiting to get into Cains heart. We have also noticed that this  serpents curse is never revoked by God anywhere in the word of  God and a cow has more autonomy then the cursed serpent. 
Now to this we can add…. 
That we have discovered apparently Angels cannot be tempted  (which is why Christ did not take their nature) because they are  immortale and incorruptable and are ALL ministering spirits  working for God.This includes the angel of death and destruction. 
We also learnt that King David and Job never knew you existed  and didn’t validate your supernature fallen angel power status in  their life. To this we can add that “Satan” is not even a name but  rather a tittle “the adversary” or “opposser” and the first time it  appears in scripture it reffers to God opposing David and not you. 
Satan has your public relations profile page suffered a savage blow? 
43 
Question 29: How can someone be a devil if you are the devil? 
John 6:70-71 Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you  is a devil?71 He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of  
Simon: for he it was that should betray him, being one  
of the twelve. KJV 
However, if we realise that the Greek word for devil is  
diabolos and is strongs 1228 which means slander or  
false accuser we get to see that there is a  
complex matrix of human deceit at play here.  
There were plans to organise false accusers  
and covert operations with monetary bribes. However, if  
we work off the general belief that the devil and Satan are  one and the same let’s use the word Satan in the text to  accentuate the problem the text reveals. 
Jesus answered them, have not I chosen you twelve, and  
one of you is a Satan? 71 He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for he it was  that should betray him, being one of the twelve.  
Does the text reveal a you (Satan) a supernatural Devil or rather a human  adversary who had put into his heart by the religious leaders a sinister plot of  betrayal and false accusation? 
44 
Question 30: Did you (Satan) enter into Judas? 
Luke 22:2-3 And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him;  for they feared the people.3 Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot,  being of the number of the twelve. KJV 
In our quest to find scriptural truth there is no reward for lazy research. We  have a verse which States that Satan entered Judas and on the face of it the  picture seems clear. It isn’t until we realise that the word here is Satanas strongs 4567 which means the adversary. Only when we comprehend this all important fact can we then look at all the other texts relating to this text and  see who the adversary truly was.  
Matt 26:14-16 Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went unto the chief  priests,15 And said unto them, what will ye give me, and I will deliver him unto you?  And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver.16 And from that time he  sought opportunity to betray him. KJV 
It becomes even clearer now why Judas was referred to as devil. Now let’s  look again at this verse again to see what we may have missed. 
Luke 22:2-3 And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him;  for they feared the people.3 Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot,  being of the number of the twelve. KJV 
It becomes clear that Judas’ heart that had already been programmed by the  religious leaders was now set in its cause of action. A decision had been  made. The next verse perfectly correlates to Luke 22;2-3 and Matt 26;14-16  
John 13:2 And during supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas  Iscariot, Simon's (son), to betray him, ASV  
Just to make the question clear when Judas battled his Satan he went to them  face to face. 
Matt 27:3-4 Then Judas, which had betrayed him, when he saw that he was  condemned, repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the  chief priests and elders,4 Saying, I have sinned in that I have betrayed the  innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? see thou to that. KJV 
Where you (Satan the supernatural fallen angel) the one who entered Judas or  

was it the plans and cunning deception of the religious leaders?

45 

Question 31; If you (Satan) possessed Judas why were you  subject to the directives of Christ whom told you to act with  haste? 
John 13:21-30 When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and testified,  and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me.22 Then the  disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake.23 Now there was  leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved.24 Simon Peter  therefore beckoned to him, that he should ask who it should be of whom he spake.25  He then lying on Jesus' breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it?26 Jesus answered, He  it is, to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the  sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.27 And after the sop Satan  entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest, do quickly.28 Now  no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto him.29 For some of them  thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto him, Buy those things  that we have need of against the feast; or, that he should give something to the  poor.30 He then having  received the sop went  immediately out: and it was  night. KJV 
If we are to stick with the traditional view of Satan surely this question must  prove problematic. Here we have Christ giving command which we know was  heeded by supposedly Satan because evidently God is in total control that the 
46 
scriptures may be fulfilled through the son of perditions betrayal. This must  remind us of the Satan in Job who also under Gods sovereign authority. 
Are you (Satan) obedient to Christs command to act  quickly? 
47 
Question 32; were you (Satan) the Pharisees’ Father, the  supernatural devil? 
Matt 26:59-62 
Now the chief priests, and elders, and all the council, sought false witness against  Jesus, to put him to death;60 But found none: yea, though many false witnesses  came, yet found they none. At the last came two false witnesses,61 And said, This  fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days.62  And the high priest arose, and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing? what is it  which these witness against thee? KJV 
John 8:43-45 
Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye cannot hear my word.44  Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a  murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in  him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father  of it.45 And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not. KJV 
In order to find who, the first murderer was other than when sin Destroyed the  image of God in Man we need find its first occurrence in the bible. Is it  possible to show that sin was a beast that lay at the door of Cain’s heart and  entered in when he was the first to murderer? When God questioned him  about his brother he lied. Here you have the unrighteous conspiring to kill the  righteous. Is Christ likening them to be being of the seed of Cain or even the  father personified as sin, because they are replicating his or its actions in their  hearts toward Christ the offering most acceptable and out of jealousy they  want to murder Him?  
John 7:1-2 After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in  Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him.2 Now the Jews' feast of  tabernacles was at hand. KJV 
Jude 11-18 
Woe unto them! for they have gone in the way of Cain, and ran greedily after the  error of Balaam for reward, and perished in the gainsaying of Core.12 These are  spots in your feasts of charity, when they feast with you, feeding themselves  without fear: clouds they are without water, carried about of winds; trees whose fruit  withereth, without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots;13 Raging waves of the  sea, foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, to whom is reserved the  blackness of darkness for ever.14 And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, 
48 
prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousands of his  saints, 
15 To execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among  them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed, and of all  their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him.16 These  are murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lusts; and their mouth speaketh  great swelling words, having men's persons in admiration because of  advantage.17 But, beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before of  the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ;18 How that they told you there should be  mockers in the last time, who should walk after their own ungodly lusts. KJV 
Mark 12:10-14 And this Writing did ye not read: A stone that the builders rejected, it  did become the head of a corner:11 from the Lord was this, and it is wonderful in our  eyes.'12 And they were seeking to lay hold on him, and they feared the  multitude, for they knew that against them he spake the simile, and having left him,  they went away;13 and they send unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the  Herodians, that they may ensnare him in discourse,14 and they having come, say  to him, 'Teacher, we have known that thou art true, and thou art not caring for any  one, for thou dost not look to the face of men, but in truth the way of God dost teach;  is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar or not? may we give, or may we not give?' 
YLT 
1 John 3:10-13 
In this manifest are the children of God, and the children of the devil(1228); every  one who is not doing righteousness, is not of God, and he who is not loving his  brother11 because this is the message that ye did hear from the beginning, that we  may love one another,12 not as Cain — of the evil one he was, and he did slay his  brother, and wherefore did he slay him? because his works were evil, and those of  his brother righteous.13 Do not wonder, my brethren, if the world doth hate you; YLT 
1228 diábolos (from 1225 /diabállō, "to slander, accuse, defame") – properly, a  slanderer; a false accuser; unjustly criticizing to hurt (malign)  and condemn to sever a relationship. 
[1228 (diábolos) is the root of the English word, "Devil" (see also Webster's  Dictionary). 
It is important to note that in the king James bible the word “who” is supplied  by the translators and was not part of the original texts and it appears in  italics. It should read “not as Cain was of the wicked one” which completely  changes the meaning that being, that Cain is the wicked one.
49 
1 John 3:12 Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And  wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's  righteous. KJV 
Any practising unrighteousness according to these verses above are God’s  adversary. 
The “wicked one” is the individual’s carnal nature which is enmity against  God. 
1 John 2:13-15 I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from  the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the  wicked one. I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father.14 I  have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the  beginning. I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word  of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one.15 Love not the  world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of  the Father is not in him. KJV 
1 John 5:18-19 We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not; but he that is  begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not.19 And  we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness. KJV 
Matt 13:19 When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it  not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in  his heart. This is he which received seed by the way side. KJV 
Now if a man is led away by his own lusts then it is “the adversary of sin in the  heart” that steals the gospel out of the heart through carnal desire … 
James 1:14-15 But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own  lust, and enticed.15 Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin,  when it is finished, bringeth forth death. KJV 
1 Tim 6:9 But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into  many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. KJV 
Titus 2:11-12 For the grace of God hath appeared, bringing salvation to all men,12  instructing us, to the intent that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we  should live soberly and righteously and godly in this present world; ASV 
The devil in this next verse are those who twist the word of God as they are  false apostles.
50 
Matt 13:38-39 The field is the world; the good seed are the children of the kingdom;  but the tares are the children of the wicked one;39 The enemy that sowed them is  the devil (1228); the harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are the angels. KJV 
2 Cor 11:13-15 For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming  themselves into the apostles of Christ.14 And no marvel; for Satan himself is  transformed into an angel of light.15 Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also  be transformed as the ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to  their works. KJV 
Now re-read the above texts with the original word used for “satan” and it’s meaning described below instead of the suppositional meaning. 
1228 diabolos: slanderous, accusing falsely 
Were you (Satan) the father of the Pharisees? 
51 
Question 33; Did you (Satan) put the apostles in gaol? 
When we try to find the biblical evidence for the supernatural satan putting the  disciples in Gaol we discover a different adversary. 
Matt 5:25-26 Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with  him; lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver  thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.6 Verily I say unto thee, Thou shalt  by no means come out thence, till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing. KJV 
Acts 5:17-18 Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him, (which  is the sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled with indignation,18 And laid their  hands on the apostles, and put them in the common prison. KJV 
Rev 2:9-11 I know thy works, and tribulation, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and I  know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but are the  synagogue of Satan.10 Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer: behold,  the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall  have tribulation ten days: be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of  life.11 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; He  that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death. KJV
52 
Paul’s confession of what he did when he opposed God and stood in the way  of the gospel as an adversary to it gives us a greater insight and understanding of this verse. 
Acts 26:9-11 I verily thought with myself, that I ought to do many things contrary to  the name of Jesus of Nazareth.10 Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of  the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief  priests; and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them.11 And I  punished them oft in every synagogue, and compelled them to blaspheme; and  being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities. 
KJV 
Did the religious leaders and their consorts put them in prison or was it you?  

(Satan)

53 

Question 34; the bible tells us that Carnal mind is enmity  againstָּGodָּwhyָּisn’tָּthatָּenmityָּattributed to you (Satan)? 
Rom 8:6-10 For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life  and peace.7 Because the carnal mind is enmity against God: for it is not subject  to the law of God, neither indeed can be.8 So then they that are in the flesh cannot  please God.9 But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of  God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his.10  And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the Spirit is life  because of righteousness. KJV 
Here we get see a glimpse of the real devil and where the battlefield is. If you  are willing to see it we can revisit this next verse and see what it is we are to  abhor. … the repulsive reaction the spiritual mind which is of Christ dwelling in you has toward the carnal mind which is sin and death the seed of the  nacash (serpent) in the mortal body which Christ destroyed this adversary (hasatan) on the cross. 

Gen 3:14-15 And the Lord God  
said unto the serpent(nacash),  
Because thou hast done this, thou  
art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast  
of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy  life:15 And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed  and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. KJV 
Do we fight you (Satan) or do we war in the mind the carnal  tendencies of the human heart?
54 
Question 35 ; Are You (satan) the one we fight when it’s not flesh  and blood but spiritual wickedness in high places? 
Eph 6:11-13 Put on the whole armour of God, that ye  
may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.12  
For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against  
principalities, against powers, against the rulers of  
the darkness of this world, against spiritual  
wickedness in high places.13 Wherefore take unto  
you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to  
withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.KJV 
Let’s consider the principlalites and powers, are they in some celestial place  or do they reffer to human ideologies of political or religious power and  persuasion ? 
When reading the next verse consider whether or not….this public show was  in the unseen spiritual realm or was it on the cross and displayed for the  political and religious leaders to see? 
Col 2:14-15 Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which  was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross;15 And having  spoiled principalities and powers, he made a shew of them openly, triumphing  over them in it.KJV 
If we are fighting these unseen forces as this is the general interpretation why  does Paul tell us to be subject to them? 
Titus 3:1-2 Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey  magistrates, to be ready to every good work,2 To speak evil of no man, to be no  brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men.KJV 
It is my understanding that the text is saying that we must put on Christ in  order to fight the enemies of the gospel of the kingdom which are of the world  in political ,religious and even our own heart carnal desire. This is not flesh  and blood,as it is mind sets, ideologies and stigmas of being socially  ostricised. 
Eph 3:9-11 And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which  from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by  Jesus Christ:10 To the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in  heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God,11  According to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord:KJV
55 
However, there is also much in this verse which the bible will itself again  reveal to be divergent to mainstream thinking if we are willing to allow for a  good biblical exegesis. 
Are you (Satan) the one we fight against and not worldly ideologies?
56 
Question 36; Are your “high places” also heavenly places Satan? 
Eph 6:12-13 For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against  principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against  spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. NKJV 

The KJV version of High places come from the Strongs 2032 epouránios (an  adjective, derived from 1909 /epí, "on, fitting," which intensifies 3772 /ouranós,  "heaven") – properly, heavenly, referring to the impact of heaven's influence on the  particular situation or person.  
That the heavenly place may be just as much in the heart of the one whom  Christ resides. This means the NKJV version among others is more accurate.  High places are places of pagan worship and have nothing to do with the  verse. Ironically the High place is a place of idolatry and the heavenly place  which can also refer to the tabernacle of Christ in the human heart can also fall  to such forms of idolatry as well. 
Are High places Satan your tabernacle in the unseen spiritual realm?
57 
Something to consider 
It is always good to use a bit of common sense when we are  discussing what appears to be biblical delemas. The truth is it is  not the bible that has a problem it is more than likely it is our  perception that is twisted.  
If I was to ask someone who has a mainstream veiw of the devil  and I asked was Lucifer the most beautiful being ever created ,the  answer would more than likely be YES. 
Now if I asked the same question in a different way with just a  little bit of common sense logic Im sure they would be offended.  For example if I said “ so you think satan is more beautiful than  God” they would insist they never said that.  
But they Did when they said satan was the most Beautiful being  ever created. Surely they would say I never said God was created  and the conversation would not end on a very good note.  
But I want you to just consider this ..If satan is the most beautiful  being ever created and man was made in the image of God, than  by common sense logical deduction satan must be more beautiful  than the image of God. 
Now do you see it? 
The angels were not made in the image of God man was. So man  in his prefallen state was indeed a glorious being in which God  was one with Just as we are now one in Christ.  
This is something that you would do well to ponder beyond the  words on this page.
58 
Question 37; does the greatest commandment of all condemn  you (satan)and declare Gods sovereignty? 
How few realise that the greatest commandment of all declares the singularity of  God. You may notice something about the nature of God that whilst this book does  not try to address, it is however fundamental to the understanding of the Gospel.  
Deut 6:4-15 Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord:5 And thou shalt love  the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy  might.6 And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine  heart:7 And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk  of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way,  and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.8 And thou shalt bind them  for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes.9  And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and on thy gates.10  And it shall be, when the Lord thy God shall have brought thee into the land  which he sware unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give  thee great and goodly cities, which thou buildedst not,11 And houses full of all  good things, which thou filledst not, and wells digged, which thou diggedst  not, vineyards and olive trees, which thou plantedst not; when thou shalt have  eaten and be full;12 Then beware lest thou forget the Lord, which brought thee  forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.13 Thou shalt fear the  Lord thy God, and serve him, and shalt swear by his name.14 Ye shall not go  after other gods, of the gods of the people which are round about you;15  (For the Lord thy God is a jealous God among you) lest the anger of the Lord  thy God be kindled against thee, and destroy thee from off the face of the  earth.KJV  
In the next verse Christ condenses deuteronomy chapter 6 and how many of us only  quote the first half of this commandment and not notice the all-important “and”? 
Mark 12:29-30 And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O  Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord:30 And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with  all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is  the first commandment.KJV
59 
When we combine the next verse with the previous verse we must conclude by  logical reason that the One lord who is Christ is also one God who is also Father and  the one God of Deut 6.. 
Cor 8:4-6 As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered in  sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none  other God but one.5 For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in  earth, (as there be gods many, and lords many,)6 But to us there is but one God, the  Father, of whom are all things, and we in him; and one Lord Jesus Christ, by  
whom are all things, and we by him.KJV 

Rom 3:29-30 Is he the God of the Jews only? is he not also  
of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also:30 Seeing it is one  
God, which shall justify the circumcision by faith, and  
uncircumcision through faith. KJV 
Isa 45:20-25 Assemble yourselves and come; draw near together, ye that are escaped  of the nations: they have no knowledge that set up the wood of their graven image, and  pray unto a god that cannot save.21 Tell ye, and bring them near; yea, let them take  counsel together: who hath declared this from ancient time? who hath told it from that  time? have not I the Lord? and there is no God else beside me; a just God and a  Saviour; there is none beside me.22 Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the  earth: for I am God, and there is none else.23 I have sworn by myself, the word is  gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return, That unto me every knee  shall bow, every tongue shall swear.24 Surely, shall one say, in the Lord have I 
60 
righteousness and strength: even to him shall men come; and all that are incensed  against him shall be ashamed.25 In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and  shall glory.KJV 
The testimony of Jesus Christ also proclaims this John 10:30 I and my Father are  one. KJV 
To understand the at-one-ment made by Christ it is important to grasp this oneness which is amplified 4 times in the next verse. 
John 17:20-26 Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe  on me through their word; 21 That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me,  and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou  hast sent me. 22 And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them; that they  may be one, even as we are one: 23 I in them, and thou in me, that they may be  made perfect in one; and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast  loved them, as thou hast loved me.24 Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast  given me, be with me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast  given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world.25 O righteous  Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have  known that thou hast sent me.26 And I have declared unto them thy name, and will  declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in  them. KJV 
Are you (Satan) part of or an opposing god, against God’s  sovereignty and oneness   
61 
  
Question 38:Are you responsible for “evil” Satan? 
It becomes a problem for the traditional veiw of Satan to continue to stand in light  of these next verses. But if we are still clinging to such a belief then God must then  seem strange in this next verse.The fact that God created the expression for freewill  to be acted upon if it were to be in rebellion to him. Is this therefore God who sets that very standard as to what constitutues the opposser to his will. Yes, He sets the  standard and also sets the punishment if it is violated. God created the potential for  evil by giving us freewill but God NEVER WILLED IT TO US. We made that decision. 
 Isa 45:1-8 Thus saith the Lord to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have  holden, to subdue nations before him; and I will loose the loins of kings, to open before  him the two leaved gates; and the gates shall not be shut;2 I will go before thee, and  make the crooked places straight: I will break in pieces the gates of brass, and cut in  sunder the bars of iron:3 And I will give thee the treasures of darkness, and hidden  riches of secret places, that thou mayest know that I, the Lord, which call thee by thy  name, am the God of Israel.4 For Jacob my servant's sake, and Israel mine elect, I have  even called thee by thy name: I have surnamed thee, though thou hast not known me.5 I  am the Lord, and there is none else, there is no God beside me: I girded thee, though thou hast not known me:6 That they may know from the rising of the sun, and from the  west, that there is none beside me. I am the Lord, and there is none else.7 I form the  light, and create darkness: I make peace, and create evil: I the Lord do all  these things.8 Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down  righteousness: let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation, and let  righteousness spring up together; I the Lord have created it.KJV 
Amos 3:5-7 Can a bird fall in a snare upon the earth, where no gin is for  him? shall one take up a snare from the earth, and have taken nothing at  all?6 Shall a trumpet be blown in the city, and the people not be afraid?  shall there be evil in a city, and the Lord hath not done it?7 Surely the  Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the  prophets.KJV 
2 Sam 17:14 And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The counsel of Hushai the  Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel. For the Lord had appointed to defeat  the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the intent that the Lord might bring evil upon  Absalom. KJV
62 
1 Kings 14:10 Therefore, behold, I will bring evil upon the house of Jeroboam, and  will cut off from Jeroboam him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up and  left in Israel, and will take away the remnant of the house of Jeroboam, as a man taketh  away dung, till it be all gone. KJV 
1 Kings 21:21-22 Behold, I will bring evil upon thee, and will take away thy  posterity, and will cut off from Ahab him that pisseth against the wall, and him that  is shut up and left in Israel,22 And will make thine house like the house of Jeroboam the  son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah, for the provocation  wherewith thou hast provoked me to anger, and made Israel to sin.KJV 
Jer 6:19 Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of  their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words, nor to my law, but  rejected it. KJV 
Did you create evil Satan? 

Well its been a while since our  
devil has had a make over so if were to 
adjust our image of our arch nemisis where  
would we start. We could sit him in a chair and  strip his bat wings off , rid him of his trident fork and  pan horns and get rid of his goat head and hoofs. We  can get him out of his burning flames and survey what we  have left.
63 
Question 39; If the Prophets of Old were monothiest are you  (Satan) part of dualistic polytheism? 
As Christains some of us have a triune belief in God and we maybe don’t  realise that this was not something held by the prophets of old. We also may  not understand that the core belief held by the prophets of old was so different  to the heathen gods in that they proclaimed to be monotheisitic as this is what  God himself also proclaimed. The other pagan gods had built into them a  dualistic battle between the good god or gods and the bad god or gods. God  wanted to let those who were to be obedient to him to know that there were no  other gods opposing him and even if they thought the bad came from these  other gods he unequivically tells them He does it all. as we read… 
Isa 45:6-25 That they may know from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that  there is none beside me. I am the Lord, and there is none else.7 I form the light,  and create darkness: I make peace, and create evil: I the Lord do all these  things.8 Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down  righteousness: let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation, and let  righteousness spring up together; I the Lord have created it.9 Woe unto him that  striveth with his Maker! Let the potsherd strive with the potsherds of the earth. Shall  the clay say to him that fashioneth it, What makest thou? or thy work, He hath no  hands?10 Woe unto him that saith unto his father, What begettest thou? or to the  woman, What hast thou brought forth?11 Thus saith the Lord, the Holy One of Israel,  and his Maker, Ask me of things to come concerning my sons, and concerning the  work of my hands command ye me.12 I have made the earth, and created man upon  it: I, even my hands, have stretched out the heavens, and all their host have I  commanded.13 I have raised him up in righteousness, and I will direct all his ways:  he shall build my city, and he shall let go my captives, not for price nor reward, saith  the Lord of hosts.14 Thus saith the Lord, The labour of Egypt, and merchandise of  Ethiopia and of the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over unto thee, and they  shall be thine: they shall come after thee; in chains they shall come over, and they  shall fall down unto thee, they shall make supplication unto thee, saying, Surely  God is in thee; and there is none else, there is no God.15  Verily thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God of Israel, the Saviour.16 They shall  be ashamed, and also confounded, all of them: they shall go to confusion together  that are makers of idols.17 But Israel shall be saved in the Lord with an everlasting  salvation: ye shall not be ashamed nor confounded world without end. 
18 For thus saith the Lord that created the heavens; God himself that formed the  earth and made it; he hath established it, he created it not in vain, he formed it to be 
64 
inhabited: I am the Lord; and there is none else.19 I have not spoken in secret,  in a dark place of the earth: I said not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain:  I the Lord speak righteousness, I declare things that are right.20 Assemble  yourselves and come; draw near together, ye that are escaped of the nations: they  have no knowledge that set up the wood of their graven image, and pray unto a god  that cannot save.21 Tell ye, and bring them near; yea, let them take counsel  together: who hath declared this from ancient time? who hath told it from that time?  have not I the Lord? and there is no God else beside me; a just God and a  Saviour; there is none beside me.22 Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the  ends of the earth: for I am God, and there is none else.23 I have sworn by myself,  the word is gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return, That unto  me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear.24 Surely, shall one say, in the  Lord have I righteousness and strength: even to him shall men come; and all that are  incensed against him shall be ashamed.25 In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall glory.KJV 
The Pharisees however had been influenced by there times in pagan captivity  and had adopted some of these beliefs such as demonology this was the  mindset Christ was against when confronted by the religious leaderswho had  strayed from the moneithistic beliefs of old.This is documented in the jewish  encylcopedia of 1906 which states...  
But inasmuch as they were still feared and occasionally worshiped by the populace,  they became the objects of popular superstition. Jewish demonology can at no  time be viewed as the outcome of an antecedent Hebrew belief. While the  nomadic Hebrews had much in common with the Arabian Bedouins in their belief in  spirits (see Wellhausen, "Reste Arabischen Heidenthums: Skizzen und Vorarbeiten,"  1887, iii. 135 et seq.; Smith, "Rel. of Sem." 1889, pp. 112-125, 422 et seq.),  Canaanite practise and belief were greatly influenced by ancient Chaldea, whose  demonologyis in the main pre-Semitic (see Lenormant, "Chaldean Magic," 1877, pp.  23-38; German transl., 1878, pp. 22-41; Jastrow, "Religion of Babylonia and  Assyria," pp. 260 et seq.; Zimmern, in Schrader's "K. A. T." 1902, ii. 458-464). In  Babylonia the Jews came under the influence of both the Chaldean and the  Persian belief in good and in evil spirits, and this dualistic system became a  dominant factor of Jewish demonology and Angelology. In Europe, Teutonic,  Celtic, and Slavonic demonology in the form of superstition permeated Jewish  practise and belief. See Superstition..  http://www.jewishencyclopedia.com/articles/5085-demonology 
Are you (Satan) the opposing God of this world controlling  darkness and evil?
65 
Question 40; are you (satan) the messenger of light? 
Let’s examine the scriptural evidence rather then what we may think the verse  says. 
Cor 11:10-16 As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this boasting  in the regions of Achaia.11 Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth.12 But  what I do, that I will do, that I may cut off occasion from them which desire occasion;  that wherein they glory, they may be found even as we.13 For such are false  apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ.14  And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.15  Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the  ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works.16 I say  again, Let no man think me a fool; if otherwise, yet as a fool receive me, that I may  boast myself a little. KJV 
On the face of it the verse seems to contradict what we have discovered so far, that is until we look at the original meaning of the language and context. The  ministers that are carrying out the adversary’s work are those who believe in  the ministry of the Pharisees’ and have joined themselves with those  preaching the Gospel of the Kingdom. The adversary is the Pharisees’ who  use their religious system to persecute Christ. The precepts of scripture shall  now reveal this as we read… 
Jude 4 For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old  ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our God into  lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our Lord Jesus Christ. KJV 
2 Cor 11:10-16 The truth of Christ is in me, because this boasting shall not be  stopped in regard to me in the regions of Achaia;11 wherefore? because I do not  love you? God hath known!12 and what I do, I also will do, that I may cut off the  occasion of those wishing an occasion, that in that which they boast they may be  found according as we also;13 for those such [are] false apostles, deceitful workers,  transforming themselves into apostles of Christ,14 and no wonder — for even the  Adversary doth transform himself into a messenger of light;15 no great thing,  then, if also his ministrants do transform themselves as ministrants of  righteousness — whose end shall be according to their works.16 Again I say, may  no one think me to be a fool; and if otherwise, even as a fool receive me, that I also a  little may boast. YLT 
Matt 10:16-17 Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be ye  therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.17 But beware of men: for they 
66 
will deliver you up to the councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues; KJV 
Acts 20:28-30 Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over the  which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church of God, which he  hath purchased with his own blood.29 For I know this, that after my departing shall  grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock.30 Also of your own  selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after  them. KJV 
For even the Adversary doth transform himself into a messenger of light; this  next verse shows people who outwardly proclaim purity but are inwardly  opposing or being an adversary to God 
Matt 23:13-33 But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye shut up  the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye  them that are entering to go in.14 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!  for ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayer: therefore  ye shall receive the greater damnation.15 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees,  hypocrites! for ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he is  made, ye make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves.16 Woe unto  you, ye blind guides, which say, Whosoever shall swear by the temple, it is nothing;  but whosoever shall swear by the gold of the temple, he is a debtor!17 Ye fools and  blind: for whether is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifieth the gold?18 And,  Whosoever shall swear by the altar, it is nothing; but whosoever sweareth by the gift  that is upon it, he is guilty.19 Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater, the gift, or the  altar that sanctifieth the gift?20 Whoso therefore shall swear by the altar, sweareth  by it, and by all things thereon.21 And whoso shall swear by the temple, sweareth by  it, and by him that dwelleth therein.22 And he that shall swear by heaven, sweareth  by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon.23 Woe unto you, scribes and  Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have  omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these ought ye  to have done, and not to leave the other undone.24 Ye blind guides, which strain at a  gnat, and swallow a camel.25 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for  ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full  of extortion and excess.26 Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within  the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be clean also.27 Woe unto you,  scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are like unto whited sepulchres, which  indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men's bones, and of all  uncleanness.28 Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye  are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.29 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!  because ye build the tombs of the prophets, and garnish the sepulchres of the  righteous,30 And say, If we had been in the days of our fathers, we would not have 
67 
been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.31 Wherefore ye be witnesses  unto yourselves, that ye are the children of them which killed the prophets.32 Fill ye  up then the measure of your fathers.33 Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how  can ye escape the damnation of hell? KJV 
As we have just read it was the religious leaders who had morphed from  Adversary the hasatan into pretending to be ambassadors of God. The only  text we have to support the idea that it is a supernatural Satan, is the very text  in Question. The bible tells us just who this Satan is in this context when we  apply biblical precepts.  
So much of what is believed about the devil is construed by taking texts out of  their original context and omitting certain verse before and after each selected  text. Then by compiling these verses together and stitching ideologies into a  matrix of meaning that the bible doesn’t allow for, Satan begins to seem to  have a life all of His own.  
The very same people that opposed Christ’s gospel deceptively joined  themselves to it to destroy it from within and not much has changed in 2000  years. While we are all talking about the “devil strawman” the real thief has  broken in and stolen our perception of what the enemy to the gospel is. 
That is the ideology in your heart that the church reinforces that you can love  God and stay as you are. 
Are you (Satan) the messenger of Light?
68 
Let’s reconsider. 
Let’s take some time out and consider just how such a perverted view of  scripture could have come into being. If we were to examine some mainstream  orthodox theology about Satan some interesting anomalies appear. These  scriptural inconsistencies generated by the supernatural Satan belief only  present themselves in applying the biblical precepts line of enquiry. In Psalm  119 the importance of precepts is outlined as shown below. 
Ps 119:15 I will meditate in thy precepts, and have respect unto thy ways. KJV  
Ps 119:27 Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk of thy  wondrous works. KJV 
Ps 119:93-94 I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened  me.94 I am thine, save me; for I have sought thy precepts. KJV 
Ps 119:100 I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts. KJV 
Ps 119:104 Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false  way. KJV 
And in  
Isaiah 28:9-10 Whom shall he teach knowledge? and whom shall he make to  understand doctrine? them that are weaned from the milk, and drawn from the  breasts.10 For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon  line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little: KJV 
So just what is a precept? 
It is the guiding principle, meaning and action of the intended moral doctrine  being expressed. It is not something that is revealed without searching for it, for it comes through the Spiritual revelation when meditating upon the word of  God. It requires us to compare scripture with scripture, spiritual things with  spiritual things and precepts are used to make sure that all principles and  meanings are in moral synthesis before we come to any conclusions. Isaiah  chapter 28 tells us that this must be achieved at least four times in the word of  God by taking extensive verses in context and seeing if they all harmonize  before we can say we have come to a doctrinal conclusion. 
69 
It is in the light of such biblical inquisition that the traditional view of Satan  begins to waiver. Take for instance the assumption that Lucifer is the Devils  pre-fallen name.  
It may surprise you the word Lucifer only occurs once in Isaiah Chapter 14 in  the KJV. If we go to this verse and apply precepts what will we find is the  guiding principle and meaning being expressed as the moral to the text. Will  we discover the verse identifies Satan as the supernatural fallen angel called  Lucifer or does some other conclusion await us? 
Does God throw Lucifer out of the heavenly realm or does God oust man out  of the garden of his fellowship with his creator? What is the overall moral and  contextual principle being conveyed as we meditate upon the verse and  compare it with other verses? When we dig deeper into the original meaning of  the words and look at them in the fabric of their audience relevance and  culture do our views of conjecture begin to conflict. Can the same word used here “Lucifer” be found in its original dialect, to be also a name for Christ? Why do some bibles use the words “morning star” deviating from the Latin word Lucifer for both? Why is a Latin word siting in the tapestry of another  language in the first place? 
Does God establish the precept that the identified person in question is not a  god but a man and then do a complete backflip and say but you are however  the god of this world tempting everyone to sin? Is God talking to an earthly  King or a celestial being that is the god of this world? As you can see the  Christian apologist has been kept busy for hundreds of years over this debate  as the fires of uncertainty are stoked. The reason for this is simple it is all  because biblical precepts have been ignored and the doctrines of men have  been taught in their place. As you can see there are many questions that need  to be addressed if we step out of the consensus of popular tradition and  conjecture and take the precepts and study the word of God as God intended.  
As we go through this book all these questions shall be endeavoured to be  answered using the precept principle and if that is not to be found the case,  then I have not honoured you or God and have strayed off the path and stand  in hypocrisy. It is in the weight of biblical evidence for each question’s answer that the precepts shall enlighten and in quiet reflection a new view of long held  traditional beliefs will be challenged. 
The next question is probably one of the most problematic in more ways than  one. So, I ask that you employ the principle of Isaiah 28 and find out what the  true doctrine is in answer to the question.
70 
Question 41; Are you (Satan) the one that tested/tempted  Christ? 
Little is known today about the pharisses whose job was to test/tempt the  Messiah’s as they came along. There were set tests such as healing an illness  from birth, performing a miracle like turning a stone to bread and standing on  the very top of the roof of the temple. If they passed their tests then the last  test would be to endorse the tennents of their religion with worship. John the  baptist had a large following and was watched by the Pharisees closely who  knew how well liked by the people he was. When John proclaimed the coming  messiah the testers waited till the 40 days were finished then they moved into  action.The verses below show that the testing process continued all through  the ministry of Christ not just the post wilderness experience.  
Matt 3:5-9 
Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all Judaea, and all the region round about  Jordan,6 And were baptized of him in Jordan, confessing their sins.7 But when he  saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he  said unto them, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from  the wrath to come?8 Bring forth therefore fruits meet for repentance:9 And think not  to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, that  God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham.KJV 
Jesus proclaimed to Pharisees who said he had a demon.. 
Matt 12:34 
O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? for out of  the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.KJV 
Matt 16:1-4 Then the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and testing Him asked  that He would show them a sign from heaven. 2 He answered and said to them,  "When it is evening you say, 'It will be fair weather, for the sky is red'; 3 and in the  morning, 'It will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and threatening.' Hypocrites!  You know how to discern the face of the sky, but you cannot discern the signs of the  times. 4 A wicked and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign 
71 
shall be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah." And He left them and  departed. NKJV 
Matt 19:3 The Pharisees also came to Him, testing Him, and saying to Him, "Is it  lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason?" NKJV 
Matt 22:34-36 But when the Pharisees heard that He had silenced the Sadducees,  they gathered together. 35 Then one of them, a lawyer, asked Him a question,  testing Him, and saying, 36 "Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?"  NKJV 
Mark 8:11-12 Then the Pharisees came out and began to dispute with Him,  seeking from Him a sign from heaven, testing Him. 12 But He sighed deeply in  His spirit, and said, "Why does this generation seek a sign? Assuredly, I say to you,  no sign shall be given to this generation." NKJV 
Note; the new King James uses the word testing the KJV uses the word  tempting. 
Matt 16:1-4 The Pharisees also with the Sadducees came, and tempting desired  him that he would shew them a sign from heaven.2 He answered and said unto  them, When it is evening, ye say, It will be fair weather: for the sky is red.3 And in the  morning, It will be foul weather to day: for the sky is red and lowring. O ye  hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye not discern the signs of  the times?4 A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there  shall no sign be given unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas. And he left them,  and departed. KJV 
To be “proved” or “tempted” or “tested” are three different words all derived from one  Hebrew word which is nacah which is Strongs 5254 and is in Greek peirazo Strongs  3985  
We may ask can God lead us into temptation as stated in the Lord’s prayer if  he does not tempt anyone. Here we can see that the two scriptures contradict  each other if we are honest. But there is an explanation. The word Temptation  in Luke11, 4 is more accurately rendered “trial” the trying process and the  reason God does not tempt us as stated in James 1,13 is” tempted” and not  tested or proved because of the context that God cannot be tempted by evil. 
When considering this list of Jewish messiah claimants listed below, it  becomes clear the Pharisees needed to evaluate the credentials of messiahs. It  should also be noted that there were others not mentioned referenced below  such as those recorded in the bible.
72 
Acts 5:35-39 And said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye  intend to do as touching these men.36 For before these days rose up Theudas,  boasting himself to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred,  joined themselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered,  and brought to nought.37 After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of  the taxing, and drew away much people after him: he also perished; and all, even  as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.38 And now I say unto you, Refrain from  these men, and let them alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come  to nought:39 But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found even  to fight against God. KJV 
Taken from.[edit] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_messiah_claimants Main article: Jewish messianic claimants 
In Judaism, "messiah" originally meant a divinely appointed king, such as  David, Cyrus the Great [1] or Alexander the Great. [2] Later, especially after the  failure of the Hasmonean Kingdom (37 BC) and the Jewish–Roman wars (AD  66–135), the figure of the Jewish Messiah was one who would deliver the Jews  from oppression and usher in an Olam Haba ("world to come") or Messianic  Age. However the term "false messiah" was largely absent from rabbinic  literature. The first mention is in the Sefer Zerubbabel, from the mid-seventh  century, which uses the term, mashiah sheker, ("false messiah").[3] 
• Simon of Peraea (c. Unknown – 4 BCE), a former slave of Herod the  Great who rebelled and was killed by the Romans.[4] 
• Jesus of Nazareth (c. 5 BCE – 30 CE), leader of a Jewish sect who was  crucified by the Romans at the instigation of Jewish leaders; Jews who  believed him to be the Messiah were the first Christians, also known as Jewish  Christians.[5] Muslims,[6][7] Christians[8] and Messianic Jews[9] believe him  to be the real Messiah. 
• Athronges (c. 3 CE),[10] a shepherd turned rebel leader. 
• Simon bar Kokhba (died c. 135), founded a short-lived Jewish state  before being defeated in the Second Jewish-Roman War. 
• Moses of Crete, who in about 440–470 persuaded the Jews of Crete to  walk into the sea, as Moses had done, to return to Israel. The results were  disastrous and he soon disappeared. 
• Ishak ben Ya'kub Obadiah Abu 'Isa al-Isfahani (684–705), who led a  revolt in Persia against the Umayyad Caliph 'Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan.
73 
• David Alroy, born in Kurdistan, who around 1160 agitated against the  caliph before being assassinated. 
• Moses Botarel of Cisneros, active around 1413; claimed to be a sorcerer  able to combine the names of God. 
• Asher Lämmlein, a German near Venice who proclaimed himself a  forerunner of the Messiah in 1502. 
• David Reubeni (1490–1541?) and Solomon Molcho (1500–1532),  messianic adventurers who travelled in Portugal, Italy and Turkey; Molcho,  who was a baptised Catholic, was tried by the Inquisition, convicted of  apostasy and burned at the stake. 
• Sabbatai Zevi (1626–1676), an Ottoman Jew who claimed to be the  Messiah, but then converted to Islam; still has followers today in the Donmeh. 
• Jacob Querido (?–1690), claimed to be the new incarnation of Sabbatai;  later converted to Islam and led the Donmeh. 
• Miguel Cardoso (1630–1706), another successor of Sabbatai who  claimed to be the "Messiah ben Ephraim". 
• Löbele Prossnitz (?–1750), attained some following amongst former  followers of Sabbatai, calling himself the "Messiah ben Joseph". 
• Jacob Joseph Frank (1726–1791), who claimed to be the reincarnation of  King David and preached a synthesis of Christianity and Judaism. 
• Yosef Yitzchak Schneersohn (r. 1920–1950), sixth Rebbe (spiritual  leader) of Chabad Lubavitch.[11][12] 
• Menachem Mendel Schneerson (1902–1994), seventh Rebbe (spiritual  leader) of Chabad.[11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19][20][21] 
Christian messiah claimants[edit] 
Mirza Husayn 'Ali Nuri, Baha'u'llah 
  
See also: Antichrist, List of people claimed to be Jesus, and Second Coming 
Verses in the Christian Bible tell that Jesus will come again in some fashion;  various people have claimed to, in fact, be the second coming of Jesus. Others  have been styled a new messiah still under the umbrella of Christianity. The  Synoptic gospels (Matthew 24:4, 6, 24; Mark 13:5, 21-22; and Luke 21:3) all use  the term pseudochristos for messianic pretenders.[22]
74 
• Simon Magus (early 1st century), was a Samaritan, and a native of Gitta;  he was considered a god in Simonianism; he "darkly hinted" that he himself  was Christ, calling himself the Standing One. 
• Dositheos the Samaritan (mid 1st century), was one of the supposed  founders of Mandaeanism. After the time of Jesus he wished to persuade the  Samaritans that he himself was the Messiah prophesied by Moses.[23]  Dositheus pretended to be the Christ (Messiah), applying Deuteronomy 18:15  to himself, and he compares him with Theudas and Judas the Galilean.[23][24] 
Now when we read that the adversary (written in our bibles as ‘Satan” or the  Devil) of Christ came to him when the 40 days were ended and tested ( written  as tempted) him which belief stands in congruence with the meaning of the  original language and the scriptures identification as to who the opposer of  Christ was in the context of the general principle and meaning conveyed  throughout the entire gospel story of Christ.  
Are you the Satan that tempted Christ?
75 
Question 42: Did Christ heal one of your mute demons Satan? 
It should be noted that Christ only heals the man and it is the ruler of the  synagogue who reads into the healing as being a demon being cast out. Note  that “the man” is not dumb because he has a demon  
but rather the adversary is the mute. It is the inability to  
speak which is the enemy to the man. When the  
adversary which was the inability to speak was  
removed, the man could speak. It was the religious  
leaders who had incorporated into their belief the  
dualism of Zoroastrian ideology that they learnt when in  
Persia that caused them to see the miracle through the  
eyes of an opposing supernatural entity.  
Remember if we are to read this in the traditional sense we have a serious  theological problem, because the man according to the text does not have the  inability to speak it is the demon who needs to healed? Note, the devil is an  “it”, because the adversary is by logic and reason the dumbness not a person  or a demon in this instance. Let’s read this now and see if you see something  you may have previously missed in the text. 
Luke 11:13-22 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your  children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that  ask him?14 And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to  pass, when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake; and the people wondered.15  But some of them said, He casteth out devils through Beelzebub the chief of the  devils.16 And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven.17 But he, 
knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is  brought to desolation; and a house divided against a house falleth.18 If Satan also  be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because ye say that I  cast out devils through Beelzebub.19 And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by  whom do your sons cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges.20 But if I  with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come  upon you.21 When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in  peace:22 But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he  taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted, and divideth his spoils. KJV 
Jesus proclaimed to Pharisees who said he had a demon.
76 
Matt 12:34 O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things?  for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. KJV 
Rabbinical literature commentary equates Baal Zebub of Ekron as lord of the  "fly" The word Ba‘al Zebûb in rabbinical texts is a mockery of the Ba'al  religion, which ancient Hebrews considered to be idol worship.[24] 
Jewish scholars have interpreted the title of "Lord of Flies" as the Hebrew way  of calling Ba'al a pile of dung and comparing Ba'al followers to flies.  
It can be noted that the Beelzebub connotation is steeped in Judaic mysticism  and is not a biblical construct. 
Are you (Satan) Beelzebub? 
and  
Did one of your fallen angels (Satan) make this man dumb?
77 
Question43; were You (Satan) standing with Christ on the roof of  the temple? 
Matt 4:5-7 Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a  pinnacle of the temple,6 And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself  down: for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their  hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.7  Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.KJV 
The temple institute released the following statement which can be found at https://www.templeinstitute.org/messiah_temple.htm 
We can also find other indications throughout rabbinic literature that the  messiah will appear to a generation that has already built the Temple. For  example, in the Midrash Yalkut Shimoni (Isaiah 499) it is stated: "Our  rabbis taught: when the messiah arrives, he will stand on the roof of the  Holy Temple, and shout out to Israel: 'Humble ones! The time of your  redemption is at hand!'" 
How very few people are aware that one of the reasons the Jews want to  rebuild the temple is to be able to test the messiah to see if he will fulfil  their oral traditions that were around even before Christ’s temptation of  taking the “messiah” to the roof of the temple.  
In this scene, the messiah arrives to declare to his people Israel that the  promised and long-awaited redemption has arrived... and Israel meets him in  the Holy Temple. Similarly, several attempts were made to rebuild the  Temple, throughout history. These attempts were based on Maimonides’  important principle, “the obligation of the commandments is not  dependent upon the arrival of the messiah.” we can also find other  indications throughout rabbinic literature that the messiah will appear to a  generation that has already built the Temple. For example, in the Midrash  Yalkutָּ Shimoniָּ (Isaiahָּ 499)ָּ itָּ isָּ stated:ָּ “Ourָּ rabbisָּ taught:ָּ whenָּ theָּ messiah arrives, he will stand on the roof of the Holy Temple, and shout out  toָּIsrael:ָּ‘Humbleָּones!ָּTheָּtimeָּofָּyourָּredemptionָּisָּatָּhand!'” 
 Some bible scholars have made this observation and have written about it as  in the following article which states… 
78 
The placing of Messiah on the pinnacle  
of the Temple, so far from being of  
Satanic temptation, is said to mark  
the hour of deliverance, of Messianic  
proclamation, and of Gentile voluntary  
submission. 'Our Rabbis give this  
tradition: In the hour when King  
Messiah cometh, He standeth upon  
the roof of the Sanctuary, and  
proclaims to Israel, saying, Ye poor  
(suffering), the time of your  
redemption draweth nigh. And if ye  
believe, rejoice in My Light, which is  
risen upon you . . . . . Isaiah 60:1. . . . .  
upon you only . . . . Isaiah 60:2. . . . . In  
that hour will the Holy One, blessed be  
His Name, make the Light of the  
Messiah and of Israel to shine forth; and all shall come to the Light  of the King Messiah and of Israel, as it is written ..... Isaiah 60: 3. . .  . . And they shall come and lick the dust from under the feet of  the King Messiah, as it is written, Isaiah 49:23. . . . . . And all shall  come and fall on their faces before Messiah and before Israel, and  
say, We will be servants to Him and to Israel. And every one in Israel shall have  2,800 servants, as it is written, Zechariah 8:23.' One more quotation from the same  Commentary: 'In that hour, the Holy One, blessed be His Name, exalts the Messiah  to the heaven of heavens, and  
spreads over Him of the  
splendor of His glory because  
of the nations of the world,  
because of the wicked  
Persians. They say to Him,  
Ephraim, Messiah, our  
Righteousness, execute  
judgment upon them, and do  
to them what Thy soul  
desireth.' 
In another respect these quotations are important. They show that such ideas were,  indeed, present to the Jewish mind, but in a sense opposite to the Gospel narratives. In other words, they were regarded as the rightful manifestation of  Messiah's dignity; whereas in the Evangelic record they are presented as the  suggestions of Satan, and the Temptation of Christ. Thus the Messiah of Judaism is  the Anti-Christ of the Gospels. But if the narrative cannot be traced to Rabbinic  legend, may it not be an adaptation of an Old Testament narrative, such as the  account of the forty days' fast of Moses on the mount, or of Elijah in the wilderness?  Viewing the Old Testament in its unity, and the Messiah as the apex in the column of 
79 
its history, we admit - or rather, we must expect - throughout points of  correspondence between Moses, Elijah, and the Messiah. In fact, these may be  described as marking the three stages in the history of the Covenant. Moses was its  giver, Elijah its restorer, the Messiah its renewer and perfecter. And as such they all  had, in a sense, a similar outward consecration for their work.  http://www.thejournal.org/studylibrary/life-and-times-of-christ/temptation-of-jesus 
doctrines-of-pharisees-essenes.html 

Were you (Satan) standing on the roof of the temple or was it the religious  

leaders testing Christ? 

80 
